‘Highly qualified team, with experience and recognition of standards due to the extensive handling of cases in the market, highly respected by all other stakeholders.’

‘Antonio Pedro Souza stood out for his depth of analysis, creativity in thinking about different approaches to the case, and clear understanding of our tangible and intangible objectives.’

‘Super competent team with excellent technical capabilities and experience. They seek to understand the client’s problem to propose the best legal strategy.’

‘Fernando Dantas – very experienced and qualified; great strategic thinking.’

‘Partners and lawyers in general with outstanding technical knowledge and presence in court.’

‘Eduardo Damião and Arthur Parente stand out.’

‘Mattos Filho has a leading litigation team in Brazil, especially for corporate and shareholder disputes. I have worked with them on a number of occasions and they never disappoint.’

‘Arthur Parente is one of the best litigators in the country for corporate/shareholder disputes. He possesses unique skills having worked as a transactional/M&A attorney at the beginning of his career.’

‘Fernando Dantas is a very strong litigator in the product liability space. Arthur and Fernando are both stellar and my go-to for cases in Brazil.’

‘Excellent service provided. The technical quality of the professionals and strategic capacity for structuring defences in litigation make the firm stand out.’

‘They handle complex matters, and deliver intelligent and strategic solutions to the client.’

‘I recommend Marcio Vieira Souto Costa and Guilherme Valdetaro.’

‘Sergio Bermudes Advogados stands out for the excellent quality of the work developed by the partners and associates, and also for the commitment and involvement of the partners in matters. We have worked together on several occasions, and I was really impressed by the firm’s way of working. Practitioners are extremely well-prepared and well-trained, and have in-depth knowledge of the matters involved, studying each case in detail and contributing effectively to a better result for the client.’

‘Fabiano Robalinho and Caetano Berenguer stand out.’

‘The firm offers personalised services and is prepared to handle a wide variety of matters, especially in litigation.’

‘The firm has a multidisciplinary team, and a group dedicated to corporate litigation. This brings security to the client, who is certain that the issues have been studied and explored on their various fronts.’

‘Rafael Castilho and Pedro Costa are personally involved in the cases, bringing expertise and solid knowledge.’

‘BMA has a very strict selection process, which translates into the hiring of very competent lawyers. They delve into the issues related to the lawsuits in a multidisciplinary manner, ensuring a broader view of the cases they handle.’

‘Pedro Costa is very meticulous, extremely intelligent and very thorough. He has a clear, concise and consistent argumentation, which, together with his great experience, makes him one of the most competent lawyers I have worked with.’

‘Rafael Castilho is very attentive. He tries to assist us promptly and effectively. He is very diligent in the processes he conducts.’

‘André Abbud is recommended.’

‘Machado Meyer is certainly one of the top three law firms in Brazil, a reference and leader in all areas of law. It is a firm that is concerned with having the best professionals in the market. It is no coincidence that several professionals who are references in the market are at Machado Meyer. In addition, the firm has a well-known inclusion and diversity policy, which is yet another differentiating factor in relation to the competition. An example of this occurs in the litigation area, which is led by two female partners, Gláucia Coelho and Eliane Cristina Carvalho.’

‘In the area of litigation and arbitration, partners Vinicius Pereira and Gláucia Mara Coelho are outstanding and always our first hiring options. Vinicius Pereira has a great presence in the Courts and his manifestations are always assertive and convincing. He’s the type of lawyer you like to have on your side in a lawsuit. Gláucia Coelho is extremely technical and didactic, in addition to being a great definer of strategies. Both Gláucia and Vinicius enjoy a good reputation with peers and magistrates, which gives them greater respectability.’

‘Multidisciplinary team that has extensive expertise, excellent knowledge of the client and their needs, and is able to predict trends and outcomes. The litigation team – Diogo Ciuffo – has an unmatched capacity to define procedural strategy.’

‘Diogo Ciuffo meets the clients’ demands in an integral manner, and has the ability to propose innovative solutions.’

‘In-depth knowledge of the client’s activities, with a sense of urgency in acting and excellent advice.’

‘Julio Neves is one of the most brilliant lawyers we have had the opportunity to work with. His availability to serve us and the quality of his work are unquestionable differentials.’

‘Mannheimer, Perez e Lyra Advogados provides an excellent service in the area of strategic litigation. Their knowledge of the Judiciary’s “intangibles” (e.g., what the judge thinks, how the court’s chambers usually act, etc.) has become an essential asset in the handling of major disputes. The firm provides exceptional services, both technically and from a strategic standpoint.’

‘Tomaz Lyra has excellent technical and strategic knowledge. He is very hands-on; he not only drafts the necessary pleadings, but also follows the development of the case on a daily basis. This daily monitoring is, without a doubt, a differential that places him among the most competent lawyers in the country.’

‘Veirano has a differentiated multidisciplinary team with leaders, especially in dispute resolution, concerned and engaged in offering services of the highest technical quality and with the agility expected by clients.’

‘Mateus Carreteiro demonstrates technical knowledge far above the market average and capacity to act strategically and decisively in disputes of the most varied matters. Engaged and participative, he adds value at every stage of the process and masterfully leads a team of brilliantly trained and capable lawyers.’

‘Technical knowledge, experience and availability to serve the client are the main differentials of the litigation area of Veirano Advogados.’

‘High capacity to transform business discussions into few-page documents that can be understood by judges and their assistants, without losing logic and rationale.’

‘The firm has the ability to handle highly complex cases, dealing pragmatically with legally sophisticated issues. The senior team is very involved and maintains management of each case very proactively, always anticipating movements. The procedural strategy is a detail that distinguishes this firm from others.’

‘Arnoldo Wald Filho has an ability to resolve hurdles and settle disputes, through negotiation or the right procedural strategy to find moments of dialogue. A litigation lawyer who is always looking for solutions for his clients.’

‘Mariana Antunes stands out for her organisation and execution skills that allow for impeccable service delivery.’

‘Eduardo Chad is a tough, technical lawyer. Despite his busy schedule, he provides timely advice and great services.’

‘This is an excellent firm, with knowledge, skill and quick responses. Results-oriented, with a great level of success and appropriate fees.’

‘They have extensive knowledge in the litigation area. It is important to highlight the integrity of their performance, demonstrating honesty and ethics in their negotiations. As for communication, they are very skilful and clear, with full capacity to understand and clarify cases. Empathetic and understanding.’

‘Leite Tosto e Barros’ litigation department is highly qualified to manage its clients’ case portfolio, with highly qualified professionals. The cost-benefit ratio is extremely advantageous when compared to other law firms of the same size.’

‘The team as a whole has a deep knowledge of the procedural steps in Brazil, navigating the judiciary in an ethical and legal manner to win the cases they handle for the client.’

‘Ricardo Tosto, Daniel Albolea, and Patricia Rios are always available to discuss possible legal strategies to mitigate risks and increase the chances of success in the various cases they handle.’

‘We consider LUC Advogados to be a benchmark in litigation. The firm stands out for the technical knowledge of its professionals, strategic performance, and excellence in services. They lead in the resolution of complex situations. They understand the client’s needs and seek the best result.’

‘Ricardo Zamariola Junior and Luciano de Souza Godoy are professionals who propose innovative solutions with legal security, have great technical capacity and mastery of the issues.’

‘Experience, market knowledge, excellent technique, creativity and close partnership with senior partners.’

‘The firm and the team have a deep understanding of client’s businesses and operations. The lawyers involved, regardless of seniority, are extremely well trained from a technical point of view. The relationship partner is present in all projects and demands.’

‘Different options/structures are constantly presented, always with the objective of making clients’ operations feasible and safe. It is not a law firm that stimulates litigation in an unrestricted way, there is a lot of consideration and good sense when recommending strategies.’

‘Rafael Passaro, Maria Lucia Pereira Cetraro and Flávia Persiano Galvão are recommended.’

‘Stocche Forbes stands out for its services and the quality of its team. Cases are always accompanied by partners, along with the team specialised in the topic under discussion, which makes the deliberation on the issues more rapid and assertive. It has an agile, efficient and very organised administrative structure.’

‘Rafael Pássaro is a distinguished professional, not only for his refined technical quality, but also for the zeal and wisdom in which he articulates with clients. He has his own professional profile, which transmits singular security to clients and peers.’

‘Wilson Mello Neto is a lawyer with vast legal and executive experience who also deserves to be highlighted. A natural-born articulator with great ability in negotiation and discussions in the legal and political sphere.’

‘This law firm provides a service of excellence in the litigation area. The difference lies in the speed and assertiveness in client service.’

‘Fernando Vilella is excellent; he always seeks to understand the client’s needs and demands.’

‘Well-defined processes of how to act. Professionals are extremely well-trained in strategic litigation.’

‘Antonio Celso Pugliese is an extremely distinguished negotiator and strategist, which, combined with his deep knowledge of the law, makes him an ever-present choice for strategic litigation.’

‘Walfrido Warde is the best lawyer I have worked with in Brazil. He combines excellent strategic advice, with first-class market and sector knowledge. He is solutions-driven and gets the job done quickly, efficiently and effectively.’

‘Renato Polillo has a top legal mind but always focuses on the client’s outcome and goals. He works tirelessly to deliver the results the clients need.’

‘Technical quality and commitment.’

‘Walfrido Warde and Felipe Figueiredo are recommended.’

‘Professionals extremely well prepared and ready to serve the client at any time. Swift and punctual advice.’

‘Walfrido Warde is an extremely well-prepared professional with outstanding experience.’

‘Extremely responsive and dedicated team. Warde Advogados’ partners are very involved in the matters that they handle and on top of all the detail. They provide the highest quality service in the region.’

‘Walfrido Warde is an exceptional lawyer with an amazing bandwidth. He is extremely intelligent and can immediately see where the key dispute lies and provide sound strategic advice to clients. Renato Polillo is very talented. He is dedicated to his clients, very responsive and always willing to go the extra mile.’

‘Prompt services and great knowledge of our business area. They are always available when we need guidance.’

‘Camilla Werneck – legal knowledge and speed.’

‘Castro Barros Advogados stands out for the team’s technical knowledge, high expertise and ability to find the best solutions for their clients’ problems, suggesting the best possible alternatives in order to protect their clients’ interests. An excellent team to have on your side in legal disputes, negotiations and arbitrations.’

‘The firm has a very senior team, with great knowledge of civil law and civil procedure.’

‘Taisa Oliveira is an exceptional lawyer, very diligent, proactive and with great expertise in the area of civil litigation. Tiago Cortez also stands out for his strategic vision of cases and argumentative skills.’

‘KLA’s litigation team is well prepared and always available. They are also technical and very sharp. Tiago Cortez leads the team alongside Flavia Alterio and Taisa Oliveira.’

‘Extremely competent professionals.’

‘The firm has a very competent and cohesive team, being brilliantly led by Vania. In addition, I know that the firm has been striving for years to strengthen and implement diversity and inclusion policies, with great success.’

‘Vania Wongtschowski Kleiman is the soul of the firm: a competent, intelligent lawyer with a very high degree of dedication and professionalism, who knows how to make herself heard in any situation.’

‘It is an honour to work together with the WK team on the arbitration and civil litigation fronts. The firm’s differential is, without a doubt, in the people who integrate it. Their level of experience and availability make all the difference.’

‘Domingos Fernando Refinetti is the partner responsible for conducting our processes. His technical level and commitment make all the difference, not to mention all his experience of more than 40 years in law. The team is completed by young and brilliant lawyers Larissa Galvanin and Maria Victória Cury, together with partner Marília Canto.’

‘The firm has excellent professionals with technical knowledge of the subject; they serve the client on time and to their satisfaction. They are assertive and punctual, and anticipate problems. They keep the client updated on all progress of the case and project. They are exceptional business partners.’

‘FLH is a firm formed by lawyers who are technical, committed and focused on the client.’

‘Thiago Gerbasi and Aline Dias are the professionals we rely on for complex legal discussions involving pre-litigation and litigation; they are always ready to give an in-depth opinion based on the most up-to-date context of the discussion.’

‘The firm’s engagement in the processes is exceptional, in addition to its knowledge of the law, its skill and experience in court are memorable. Also noteworthy is the team’s market knowledge.’

‘Helvécio Franco Maia Junior and Luís Felipe Bernardes Sá Teles stand out.’

‘The firm has a lot of experience in its area of expertise, and is a reference in the market.’

‘Helvécio Franco Maia Junior and Patrícia Piló Bittencourt Redig are excellent lawyers and actively participate in cases. Due to their great expertise in the subject, they are references when seeking quality and reliable advice. They have a great response time and a vast knowledge of the topics. I am quite satisfied with their work.’

‘They are full service, attentive, they have specialist lawyers in the group.’

‘Igor Rossoni is always very dedicated, he tries to meet what we need masterfully, in a short time, at an excellent cost.’

‘A team of highly qualified lawyers, experienced in their field, demonstrating in-depth legal knowledge and the ability to apply it to the cases in which they practise. They are able to communicate clearly and concisely, both with their clients and with other parties involved in a case, such as judges, opposing counsel and witnesses.’

‘The office is a great business partner and has served us well for some years now. The availability of its team of lawyers and interactions are always very productive, always in the most varied themes and subjects that we work together.’

‘Our work is always focused on partner Daniel Koehler. Daniel is great in terms of service, cordiality, creative solutions and partnership in general.’

‘Personalised service and technical qualification.’

‘The office is a great business partner and has served us well. The availability of its team of lawyers and interactions are always very productive, always in the most varied themes and subjects that we work together.’

‘Our work is always focused on Tiago Faganello and Danilo Brum. It’s been years of partnership and both are great in terms of service, cordiality, creative solutions and partnership.’

‘Álvaro Brito assists us in litigation and credit recovery. In addition to knowing the client well, Álvaro is personally dedicated to the cases. He is at the forefront of legal actions, and is decisive in agreements, especially in hearings and dispatches.’

‘The high technical level of the services provided, due to the capacity of the team’s professionals, especially the partners, which makes the Firm stand out in terms of people, collaboration and innovation.’

‘Álvaro Arantes stands out in the team, a professional with deep technical knowledge.’

‘We are assisted by the team of Diogo Rezende de Almeida and over the years he has built a relationship of unrestricted trust based on his competence, quality of results and immediate availability whenever required. For us, he is the first reference in any contentious matter.’

‘Team of young specialists, committed and interested in the quick resolution of the problem. It is a team that serves its clients very well and offers solutions to complex problems.’

‘We are assisted in person by Diogo Rezende. He is extremely well educated, attentive and willing to solve problems.’

‘Muriel Advogados is a go-to for any complex judicial or arbitral proceeding. They have a deep knowledge of so many aspects of the law that you can be sure to always have the best strategy possible.’

‘High level of legal knowledge. High level of argumentation and contextualisation with appropriate concatenation of the various circumstances correlated with other disputes.’

‘Danilo Orenga Conceição: excellent coordination of the line of thought, strategy and line of action in different processes.’

‘Yasmim Silva Fortes: Extremely well written, coherent, clear and legally sound proposals.’

‘Danilo Orenga combines a deep knowledge with incredible talent and willingness to investigate all aspects of the client’s business to always construct the best strategy.’

‘The litigation team is technical, analytical and very experienced. Muriel and Danilo work very well together. The team of associates is also very good. They are young and ambitious. When I work with Muriel and Danilo I am always reassured that I will get the best results possible.’

‘I would like to praise Danilo Orenga’s works and ethics. Danilo is a very good negotiator and strategist. He is a star. Always prepared, knows the case law and can always come up with a good plan. Yasmim Fortes also deserves praise for her quality and potential.’

‘Team with a strong performance in litigation matters arising from infrastructure disputes and public law in general.’

‘Gustavo da Rocha Schmidt is very talented and firmly positioned in the search for a positive and favourable resolution for his clients.’

‘The firm stands out for its technical capacity and commitment to the client.’

‘Extremely attentive, agile and prepared. Contact always takes place with the partner, which greatly raises the level of service and discussions.’

‘Alexandre Kingston – Excellent, prepared and attentive lawyer.’

‘SLK is a go-to for intricate matters, mainly in the State of Rio de Janeiro, where they enjoy great prestige and credibility. They are transparent, dedicated and, above all, very ethical. They are always very agile and clear about risks.’

‘Gustavo Schmidt is highly qualified from a technical point of view, respected by his peers and by the most serious judges in the State of Rio de Janeiro.’