Rives Heavyweight and Lightweight

Rives Heavyweight and Lightweight is mouldmade in Europe with 100% cotton. These papers like the BFK are designed to have a wide range of fine art printmaking techniques. It is internally sized and has minimal surface sizing. Rives is perfect for intaglio, engraving, litho, calligraphy, letterpress, etching, relief printing, silkscreen, pen and ink, and all block printing. It is a very versatile paper.

Rives comes with a unique trait for its edges. The 26" x 19" version has 2 natural deckled edges and one tear on the 19" side and one cut edge on the 26" side. the 26" x 40" is grain long with 2 natural deckles, but has 2 tear deckles along the short side (26").

Hahnemühle Copperplate, 300 gsm

Hahnemuhle Copperplate, comes in 2 sizes 22" x 30" and 31" x 47" both with weights of 300 gsm. Copperplate is mould-made from Germany with 100% high alpha cellulose. It is neutral pH, chlorine/acid free with 4 natural deckled edges and medium textured surface. Copperplate has no surface sizing at all with very little internal sizing. This technique gives the paper a soft handle with fantastic absorbing qualities allowing it to need less soaking in preparation for printing.

You definitely do not need to soak this paper overnight, just simply misting or dampening with a wet blotter will suffice. This paper has the ability to take deep embossings without cracking around the plate edges and still dry flat after printing.

Hahnemuhle Copperplate has a watermark of their encircled Rooster. This paper is ideal for all types of printmaking techniques. Copperplate is a less expensive mouldmade paper without compromisiing its deluxe appeal and performance on the press.

You can use this paper for all types of art techniques: hand litho, intaglio, letterpress, offset, pastel & charcoal, silkscreen, stationery, etching, invitations, embossing and many other art projects.

Hahnemuhle Copperplate 22" x 30" 300 gsm comes in three colors: Bright White #721, Extra Bright White #745 and Warm White #718.

Hahnemuhle Copperplate 31" x 47" 300 gsm comes in two colors: Bright White #722 and Warm White #719.

Fabriano Unica 22 x 30 250 gsm

Fabriano Unica 22 x 30 250 gsm is a versatile paper that can be used by all printmaking techniques as well as drawing and water media. It is made of 50% cotton and is acid free.

Fabriano Unica paper is produced with hydro-energy and is an ideal paper for all projects. Unica has been tested to its limits in printing engraving and other printmaking techniques. Fabriano Unica is moderately priced for the art student, or the aspiring artist. It comes in two colors (ivory and white).

The quality and value of Italian made paper is epitomized in Fabriano Unica.

Arches 88 Silkscreen Paper

Arches 88 300 gsm is mouldmade in France from 100% cotton, unsized with has four deckled edges. This paper was originally developed for screenprinting, however, as the years have gone by it has transitioned into various printmaking processes.

Arches 88 is incredibly resilient and durable making it one of the premier choices for silkscreen. You can also use this paper for litho, etching and pencil..

Hahnemühle Durer Etching 22" x 30"

Hahnemuhle Durer Etching 22" x 30" comes in 250 gsm and 300 gsm made from 100% cotton rag with watermarks. Durer Etching has deckled edges. It is genuine mould-made printmaking paper suitable for an extensive range of printing techniques.

Durer Etching new paper has a soft, cold pressed textured which is smooth but robust for soaking and stretching. This paper is suitable for any form of printmaking techniques: etching, engraving, mezzotint, drypoint, collograph and all types of intaglio, relief and lithographic printing or silk screen and serigraphic printing.

Durer Etching is internally sized and displays the consistent quality of a machine made paper. Each piece has the watermark of the Rooster and Hahnemuhle. This paper has the individual character of a hand made paper as it is made by Hahnemuhle in Germany on a mould-made paper making machine.

Lenox 100

Lenox 100 is 250 gsm and has a vellum surface and works great for silkscreening, litho, etching and embossing. Its medium textured surface makes it ideal for pencil, graphite, and charcoal drawing techniques. Lenox 100 is machine made with no deckled edges or watermark.

Lenox 100 provides a medium textured surface making a great piece of paper to work with for a reasonable price. Lenox 100 paper was developed in the 1970's specifically for the fine art community. Lenox 100 is a great paper to work with for many different art applications. It is made in the USA, white, neutral pH and acid free.

Fabriano Murillo, 27" x 39" & 27" x 19" - 360 gsm

Fabriano Murillo, Full Sheet Size 27" x 39", In addition Acuity offers half sheet Murillo 27" x 19" - Fabriano Murillo 360 gsm is a hefty card stock with neutral pH and acid free. The paper has a wove surface with trimmed edges and comes in many vibrant and popular colors.

Fabriano Murillo is a hefty card stock paper with trimmed edges and comes in many vibrant colors. This paper is both internally and externally sized with the heavy weight special texture it is well suited for printmaking. Many artist use it for Gouache.

Mouldmade in Italy of 15% cotton, 85% sulphite, neutral pH, internally and externally sized. This heavy 360 gram paper has a special texture. Well suited for book art as well as printmaking.

Many artist use Fabriano Murillo with the Gouache method guache, is one type of watermedia, paint consisting of pigment, water, a binding agent, and sometimes additional inert material. Gouache is designed to be used with opaque methods of painting.

Developed for graphic design and multimedia, Murillo’s unique blend of color, texture and thickness lends itself to any project where a paper’s rigidity is key.

Excellent for embossing, etching and drawing its internal sizing also allows for light water media and offset printing.

It is perfect for graphic design, modeling, multimedia, embossing, printmaking, pastel, book art, scrapbooking, etching, drawing, inks, colored pencils, graphite and pastels. Fabriano Murillo has internal sizing which allows for light water media and offset printing.

Fabriano Artistico Watercolor Paper, 22 x 30

Fabriano Artistico 22 x 30 comes in several weights consisting of 200 gsm / 90 lbs, 300 gsm / 140 lbs, 430 gsm / 200 lbs and 640 gsm / 300 lbs. Fabriano Artistico has 2 deckle edges and comes in Soft-Press, Hot-Press, Rough and Cold-Press. It comes in 2 different colors being Extra-White and Traditional White.

Artistico is worldwide known as the flagship of the Fabriano watercolor line of papers. The cold press (grana fina) surface is very versatile and has a soft texture that is durable enough to handle lifting and scrubbing. The hot press (grana satinata) is the smoothest watercolor paper and is a favorite for digital printing. The rough (grana grossa) has a extraordinary rugged texture making it one of the finest handmade papers available in the market.

The soft press (grana dolce) is recently created by Fabriano and has an exclusive surface which is designed for todays artists needs for art techniques. This type of paper has a texture that lies between the cold and hot press giving it a texture that is equal toe the finest printmaking paper but has the durability of a strong watercolor paper.

Fabriano Artistico is mould-made, 100% acid free rag cotton fiber, does not have optical whiteners, both internally sized and surface sized, with no animal by-products when produced, chlorine free.

This paper is ideal for all wet media, as well as uses for, printmaking, calligraphy, lithography, digital printing, charcoal, drawing and etching.

Fabriano Tiepolo 290 gsm Soft White

Fabriano Tiepolo comes in 3 sizes 19" x 27" 22" x 30" and 27" x 39" both weighing 290 gsm Soft White has 4 deckle edges and is mould-made with 100% acid free cotton paper with a beautiful watermark.

The 100% cotton paper is suitable for etching, lithography, wood-cuts and engravings as well as drawing and other fine art techniques.

In a traditional Italian soft white color this paper is versatile and strong for printmaking and can withstand the wear and tear of printmaking techniques.

It has a smooth surface and excels in all printmaking techniques, silk-screening, embossing and digital printing. You can also use this paper for drawing, loose watercolor washing and other fine art media projects.

Fabriano Rosaspina Printmaking Paper

Fabriano Rosaspina comes in 2 sizes 20" x 27" and 27" x 39". Rosaspina 20" x 27" comes in only one weight being 220 gsm but the 27" x 39" comes in 2 weights one 220 gsm and the other is 285 gsm. This paper is excellent for all printmaking techniques and performs as well as 100% rag papers. This paper has 60% cotton content and lack of external sizing gives it a soft surface which is ideal for etching and aquatint. It is mould-made and acid-free with 4 deckle edges.

All weights and sizes of Rosaspina come in two colors: white and ivory.

Rosaspina is excellent for all printmaking techniques. It lacks external sizing which gives it a soft surface making it ideal for etching and aquatint.

The sheet’s watermark runs parallel to the two smaller sides of the sheet and reproduces the Fabriano trademark and logo.

You can also use this paper for an upscale drawing paper.

A hidden jewel amongst printmaking papers, Rosaspina performs as well as 100% rag papers - excellent for all printmaking techniques, including etching, lithography and silk-screening.

Arches Cover

Arches Cover Printmaking Paper 22" x 30" 250 gsm is mould-made from 100% cotton and has been around the art community for many years. This paper has two watermarks and two natural deckle edges.

It has internal sizing with minimal surface sizing. Due to this technique this paper does not need to be completely soaked overnight prior to printing. Instead you just need to dampen the paper. This does not mean you cannot soak the paper overnight it is merely up to the individual art professional.

You may use this paper for all printmaking techniques and it is rather versatile because it is possible to print this paper: wet, damp or dry with subtle texture.

This paper is primarily a printmaking paper, however, many artists throughout the art community have been using it for many other art techniques: pencil, pastel, charcoal and others.

Pescia 22 x 30 300 gsm

Pescia 22" x 30" 300 gsm is made with 100% cotton from Italy. This paper is smooth with internal sizing but has very little surface sizing. This makes Pescia ideal for all printmaking processes. Pescia has deckled on all four sides and displays the watermark of the old CM logo. It is smooth and supple to the touch.

Pescia can be used for intaglio, messotint, aquatint, etching, woodblock, stone litho, etching, silkscreen, drawing, graphite, colored pencil, pastel and charcoal.

Okawara Student Grade White, 18 x 25, 51 gsm

Okawara Student Grade White, 18 x 25, 51 gsm this is acid free and handmade of kozo and hemp fibers with 4 deckle edges and a laid finish. Okawara Student Grade is a relative thick Japanese paper making it deal for book arts, printmaking, conservation and brush painting.

Awagami Shiramine Select 17x 20, 110 gsm

Awagami Shiramine Select 17x 20, 110 gsm is made from 30% kozo, 15% hemp and 55% High Alpha Cellulose. One side of the heavy paper is highly textured with a soft feel, the opposite side of the paper is smooth.

The paper has four naturally feathered deckled edges. This paper is off white in color. The textured side is used for printmaking applications, while the smooth side can be used for painting and drawing.

This fine art paper has a relative thickness and generous sizing which allows it to be a versatile paper for many art mediums including printmaking, painting and drawing.

Awagami Bamboo Select 17 x 20, 170 gsm

Awagami Bamboo Select 17 x 20, 170 gsm is made with 70% environmentally friendly bamboo and 20% recycled. This paper is slightly heavier than other washi and has a soft surface.

Ideallly used for intaglio, block printing and letterpress. This Japanese Fine Art Paper has a smooth finish developed for printmaking.

Monoprinting is a form of printmaking that has images or lines that can only be made once, unlike most printmaking, where there are multiple originals. There are many techniques of monoprinting.

Awagami Kitakata Select 17 x 20, 90 gsm

Awagami Kitakata Select 17 x 20, 90 gsm is made of 90% Gampi fiber and 10% high alpha cellulose.

The Awagami Kitakata Select is a Japanese Fine Art Paper in a natural cream color, with four deckle edges.

Kitakata Select is one of the Awagami Editioning paper, it is a heavier weight version of the original Kitakata Washi. This particular type of Kitakata, one side has a subtle gloss feel but has density and the other side is a soft surface.

This paper is great for many types of printmaking, especially for lithography, also the Kitakata Select can be used for block printing, screen printing and other art techiques.

Awagami Okawara Select

Awagami Okawara Select 17 x 20, 51 gsm is made of 25% kozo and 75% high alpha cellulose.

This paper has four natural deckled edges. The paper is one of the finest Japanese papers available. Awagami uses purely natural materials, so there may be slight variations in the paper.

The Awagami Okawara Select paper has a warm natural color. This paper is of medium weight and has a subtle surface texture, on one side. Making the soft side ideal for various printmaking techniques. The other side is smooth, ideal for drawing with pencil and graphite.

The paper is very versatility and has an affordable price making Okawara an international standard for printmaking students. Using Oil based colors Okawara can be used with lithography, etching, silkscreen and woodcut. Using water based colors wood cut printmaking is recommended by Awagami.

Mulberry 33 and 38, 45 gsm Off White

Awagami Mulberry 33 and 38, come in 2 sizes 25" X 33" and 25" x 38", 45 gsm Off White is handmade from kozo and sulphite pulp and is acid-free. Mulberry paper, also known as Kozo paper, provides a luxurious foundation for many art, craft and design projects. The paper feathers beautifully when hand torn. Because mulberry paper has a neutral pH, it makes a wonderful art paper for long-lasting projects. It has a wide laid formation with 4 deckle edges.

Kozo, a type of mulberry, is the most commonly used fiber in making Japanese paper. The kozo branches are boiled and stripped of their outer bark, and then dried. The fibers are then boiled with lye to remove the starch, fat and tannin, and then placed in running water to remove the lye

Awagami Mulberry Paper is handmade from the inner fiber of the mulberry to produce an exceptionally pure, translucent paper, used by paper and painting conservators in repair and lamination. It is very strong, despite its light weight.

The uses are almost endless: collage, painting, scrapbooking, note cards, lamp shades, wedding invitations, and many, many more.

This papers strength, softness, flexibility make it the most versatile sheet for printers and printmakers.

Awagami Mulberry is great for printing, silkscreen, hand lithography and book arts.

Domestic Etching - 26 x 40 175 gsm

Domestic Etching 26" x 40" with a weight of 175 GSM (approximately 85 lbs). This paper is an off white color and is made of 50% cotton. This paper has been used by many artists from the starting student to the professional for decades. Even with all the other substitutes out there Domestic Etching is still holding its popularity for use in the art world.

Domestic Etching has a blend of sulphite and cotton which gives it great internal strength to withstand plate work from a handpress. One side of the paper is smooth and the other has a slight vellum finish which is perfect for many drawing techniques from graphite, pencils, charcoal to pastels.

With this paper being internally and externally sized it is great for some offset printing and silkscreening. Domestic Etching is made in the USA with 50% cotton and 50% sulphite. It can be used for hand lithography, intaglio, letterpress, offset, pastel and charcoal, silkscreen and thermography.

Unryu Soushi, White 24 x 39, 49 gsm

Unryu Soushi White 24 x 39, 49 gsm is machine made of kozo and sulphite pulp and allows for printing impressions without lift. Soushi weight makes it an ideal choice for all printing and printmaking and can be used for stationery, calligraphy and interior design

Hahnemühle Printmaking Bundle, 22" x 30"

Hahnemuhle Printmaking Bundle are all 22" x 30" but come in various weights and they are listed below. This bundle has some of the most premium printmaking paper made from Hahnemuhle:

4 Sheets of Copperplate Bright White, 300 gsm

4 Sheets of Copperplate White, 300 gsm

4 Sheets of Copperplate Warm White, 300 gsm

3 Sheets of Durer Etching, 300 gsm

3 Sheets of Durer Etching, 250 gsm

3 Sheets of Hahnemuhle 1584 100% Cotton, 300 gsm

Hahnemuhle Copperplate is mould-made from Germany with 100% high alpha cellulose. This paper has no surface sizing, with very little internal sizing. Due to this manufacturing process, this paper has a soft feel, with fantastic absorbing qualities, This allows the Copperplate paper to be prepared for printing without soaking the paper. You definitely do not need to soak this paper overnight. Just giving it a simple misting or dampening with a wet blotter. It has the Hahnemuhle trademark watermark of an encircled Rooster. Copperplate paper is ideal for all printmaking techniques.

Hahnemuhle Durer Etching is made from 100% cotton rag with watermarks and deckled edges. This paper is mould-made and suitable for an extensive range of printmaking art techniques. Durer Etching has a soft, cold-pressed texture which is smooth but robust for soaking and stretching. It is internally sized and each paper has the watermark of the Rooster.

Hahnemuhle 1584 Cotton is ideal for woodcut and silkscreen printmaking process. 1584 is made from 100% pure cotton and is unsized and extremely absorbent. This paper has a satin-finish making for a smooth surface. 1584 has a watermark and comes with 4 deckled edges.

This bundle of Hahnemuhle printmaking paper is an ideal mixture for any printmaker wanting some of the most premium printmaking paper from Hahnemuhle with a click of one button.

List Price: $131.76

Our Price: $117.84

Savings: $13.92

Fabriano Printmaking Bundle

Fabriano Printmaking Bundle consists of varies sizes and weights of some of the most premium printmaking paper from Fabriano.

10 Sheets of Fabriano Unica Ivory 22 x 30, 250 gsm

10 Sheets of Fabriano Unica White 22 x 30, 250 gsm

8 Sheets of Fabriano Rosaspina Ivory 20 x 27, 220 gsm

8 Sheets of Fabriano Rosaspina White 20 x 27, 220 gsm

8 Sheets of Fabriano Tiepolo Soft White 22 x 30, 290 gsm

Fabriano Unica 22 x 30, 250 gsm is a versatile paper that can be used by all printmaking. It is made of 50% cotton, acid free and can also be used for drawing and water media. This paper has two colors (ivory and white).

Fabriano Rosaspina 20 x 27, 220 gsm is excellent for all printmaking techniques. This paper has 50% cotton content and lack of external sizing gives it a soft surface. This allows it to be idea for etching and aquatint. It comes in two colors (white and ivory). It is great for all printmaking techniques. Especially etching, lithography and silk-screening.

Fabriano Tiepolo 22 x 30, 290 gsm has 4 deckled edges and is mould-made with 100% acid free cotton paper with a beautiful watermark. The cotton fibers makes it perfect for etching, lithography, wood-cuts and engravings. You may also use this paper for drawing and other art techniques. The soft white color makes this paper versatile and strong for printmaking. It can withstand the wear and tear of printmaking techniques and has a soft surface. It excels in all printmaking techniques and is a pleasure to work with for printmaking.

This Fabriano Printmaking bundle is ideal for any printmaker looking to work with several of the most premium Fabriano printmaking papers.

List Price: $230.56

Our Price: $118.95

Savings: $111.61

Awagami Printmaking Bundle 17" x 20"

Awagami Printmaking Bundle costs of some of the most premium Japanese printmaking papers wrapped up in one bundle. Each of these papers are 17" x 20" and have various weights, which are listed below:

3 Sheets of Bamboo Select 170 gsm

2 Sheets of Bunkoshi Select 70 gsm

2 Sheets of Hakuho Select 220 gsm

2 Sheets of Hosho Select 80 gsm

2 Sheets of Kitakata Green 36 gsm

2 Sheets of Kitakata Select 90 gsm

2 Sheets of Kitakata SH-16 36 gsm

2 Sheets of Okawara Select 51 gsm

2 Sheets of Shiramine Select 110 gsm

2 Sheets of Kozo Select 46 gsm

Awagami Bamboo Select 17 x 20, 170 gsm is made with 70% bamboo and 20% recycled. This paper is slightly heavier than other washi and has a soft surface. It is ideal for intaglio, block printing and letterpress.

Awagami Bunkoshi Select 17 x 20, 70 gsm is made of 30% kozo and 70% alpha cellulose. This paper has a relative deep natural color and smooth surface. The Awagami Editioning papers are created with the rich history of over 300 years of washi papermaking. It has four feathery deckled edges and is ideal for printmaking techniques.

Awagami Hakuho select 17 x 20, 220 gsm is made of 45% kozo and 55% cotton. This sturdy paper is the first fine art paper to feature this unique blend of kozo and cotton fibers. Hakuho is extremely strong and resilient and can be used for woodcut but is also sized enough for some watercolor techniques.

Awagami Hosho 17 x 20, 80 gsm is made of 100% high alpha cellulose and has an unique trait of striped "laid" lines on this high quality Japanese fine art paper. Hosho has long been recognized from printmakers as one of the most versatile Japanese washi papers. Hosho is mostly known for woodblock prints but it can also be used for etching, hand lithography.

Awagami Kitakata Green has a very soft hued green tint to it and is 17 x 20 at 36 gsm. It is made with 90% gampi fiber and 10% alpha cellulose. Kitakata has a subtle gloss yet soft surface and is warmed-toned but yet resilient. It is ideal for screen printing or block printing. One side is smooth and ideal for drawing and one side is soft and lightweight.

Awagami Kitakata Select 17 x 20, 90 gsm is made of 90% gampi fiber and 10% alpha cellulose. It comes in a natural cream color with four deckled edges. It is one of the Awagami Editioning papers and is heavier weight version than the original Kitakata washi. It has one side with a subtle gloss feel but has density and the other side is a soft surface. It is ideal for many types of printmaking but especially known for lithography, screen printing or block printing.

Awagami Kitakata SH-16, 17 x 20, 36 gsm is made of 90% gampi and 10% alpha cellulose. It comes in a natural eggshell color. This Japanese printmaking paper has a delicate laid pattern and like the other Kitakata washi it comes with one silky smooth side and one soft side which is ideal for printmaking techniques.

Awagami Okawara Select 17 x 20, 51 gsm is made of 25% kozo and 75% alpha cellulose. This paper has four natural deckled edges and is one of the finest Japanese printmaking papers available. It has a warm natural color and with a medium weight and subtle surface texture on one side. The other side is soft and ideal for various printmaking techniques.

Awagami Shiramine Select 17 x 20, 110 gsm is made from 30% kozo, 15% hemp and 55% alpha cellulose. One side of the heavy paper is textured with a soft feel and the opposite side of the paper is smooth. Shiramine has four natural feathered deckled edges with an off white color. It is ideal for many type of printmaking techniques.

Awagami Kozo Natural Select 17 x 20, 46 gsm is crafted with 90% kozo and 20% alpha cellulose. This paper is textured making it exceptionally strong but still rather flexible. Kozo may be used by artists for a wide range of techniqueus from ink to printmaking to drawing.

All the papers from the Awagami Select paper collection may be used by artists for a wide range of techniques from ink to printmaking to drawing. They are such a privilege to work with and are the most premium Japanese printmaking paper.

List Price: $156.68

Our Price: $122.79

Savings: $33.89