WICHITA FALLS, Texas (KAUZ) - The MSU Texas respiratory care program earned an award from the American Association for Respiratory Care.

The AARC established the Apex Recognition Program in 2017. The award, called the APEX Award, is awarded to programs that display the highest standards of excellence in education, quality and patient care.

MSU’s respiratory care program is under the Robert D. and Carol Gunn College of Health Science and Human Services. It is one of 11 APEX award winners and one of two within the education category.

“The American Association for Respiratory Care APEX award is a testament to the hard work and dedication of the MSU Texas respiratory care program’s students, faculty, staff, and alumni who are committed to excellence in respiratory therapy education,” said Jennifer Anderson, the chair of respiratory care.

To be considered for this award program, MSU’s respiratory staff were required to submit detail documentation on various important factors within high-quality care. Being chosen as an award recipient means the AARC sees MSU’s program as one that excels in education, respiratory therapist credentialing, safe and effective protocols and more.

“This award signifies the program’s commitment to providing a top-notch education that prepares respiratory therapists to deliver exceptional patient care and positively impact their lives,” Anderson said. “The program takes pride in collaborating with all health science and human service programs in the Gunn College, and this recognition also acknowledges the program’s commitment to interdisciplinary teamwork. The AARC APEX award motivates the program to continue striving for excellence and reinforces its position as a leader in respiratory therapy education.”

The AARC is a nonprofit founded in 1947. According to the AARC website, it is the nation’s oldest and largest professional association dedicated to respiratory therapists and health care providers in the field of cardiopulmonary care. They are headquartered in Irving, Texas.

To learn more about this award program, visit the AARC’s website, here.