Port Louis - After 21 almost uninterrupted years as prime minister of the tiny, prosperous Indian Ocean island state of Mauritius, Sir Anerood Jugnauth prepares to hand over power on Tuesday to Paul Berenger, the first non-Indian to become head of government.

Jugnauth, 73, will stand down as prime minister on Tuesday, before taking the office of president on October 7.

Under the guidance of Jugnauth, who is drawn from the tiny island nation's Indian community that makes up half the population of 1.2 million, Mauritius has become a regional economic powerhouse, setting up a duty-free trade zone and establishing itself as a leader in textiles production.

His successor, Berenger, 58, is from the white minority on Mauritius.

The transfer of power is in line with an agreement reached three years ago between the island nation's two main political parties - the Mauritian Militant Movement (MMM), led by Berenger, and Jugnauth's Militant Socialist Movement (MSM).

Before general elections in September 2003, the parties of the two men, whose political destinies have been intertwined for more than 30 years, formed a coalition and won a crushing victory, garnering between them 57 of the 60 seats in parliament. The three remaining seats went to the Labour Party.

Lawyer

Under their coalition pact, the two parties agreed that Jugnauth would serve as prime minister for three years before handing over to Berenger, who would hold the premiership for two years leading up to elections in 2005.

Berenger has already said he wants to lead another coalition to contest those elections.

A lawyer by training, Jugnauth was first elected to parliament in 1963, when Mauritius was still a British colony. The island gained independence five years later.

In the early 1970s, Jugnauth joined the MMM party, founded by Berenger in 1969.

When Berenger and other MMM leaders were imprisoned in the early 1970s, a time of social unrest in Mauritius, Jugnauth became the party's leader.

He was elected to parliament in 1976 - the same year as Berenger's first election as a deputy.

In 1982, Jugnauth, still a member of the MMM, became prime minister for the first time. A year later, he parted ways with Berenger and set up the MSM. In 1987, he led the government once again, but this time represented his own party.

In 1991, the MMM and MSM forged their first alliance and won elections.

Sacked

Jugnauth was again named prime minister and appointed Berenger foreign minister, a post he held until 1994 when the two "allies" fell out and Berenger was sacked.

The following year, Berenger was re-elected to his deputy's seat and was named vice prime minister and foreign minister - again - until he - again - was removed from the post in 1997, this time because of policy differences with Jugnauth.

In the government formed by Jugnauth after the 2000 elections, Berenger has held the vice-premiership and finance portfolio prior to becoming prime minister.

Jugnauth is an English-speaker with very good mastery of the French language on this bilingual island, while Berenger is a French-speaker, with excellent English.

In succeeding Jugnauth, Berenger brings to an end a long-standing tradition in Mauritius, which has seen Indians from the Vaish caste hold the premiership since independence.

In the past several months, Berenger increasingly has had reassuring words for the Indian majority, who have historically held sway in political and economic life in the island state since independence.

His first official trip abroad is expected to be to India in November.

But observers say his main task will be to ensure that the harmony that has long existed between Indians, Muslims and "the general population" - the tag given to Mauritians of European and African extraction, and mixed race islanders called Creoles - continues, so that the island nation can forge ahead with its economic development. - Sapa-AFP