Link to proclamation

Link to associated county ZIP Code list

All Client Alert

October 17, 2018

Source: AccuWeather

Additional Resources:

Office of Texas Governor Greg Abbott (Governor Greg Abbott Issues Disaster Declaration For 18 Texas Counties In Response To Severe Weather And Flooding)

Associated county ZIP Code list

Approximate areas containing flooded homes:

Texas

Kingsland (Llano County, 78639)

Llano (Llano County, 78643)

Marble Falls (Burnet County, 78654)

NOTE: This has not yet been declared a FEMA Disaster.

A dangerous flooding situation unfolded in south-central Texas Tuesday morning near the town of Llano, as heavy rain exacerbated ongoing river flooding, prompting evacuations and a bridge collapse.

A state disaster declaration has been issued for 18 Texas counties impacted by severe weather and flooding.

“Anyone living within one-quarter mile of the river should evacuate immediately to higher ground. The [Farm to Market] bridge at 2900 will be topped soon,” officials with the Llano County Office of Emergency Management said shortly after 8 a.m. local time.

CBS Austin reported that FM 2900 bridge had collapsed near Kingsland and pieces of the bridge were seen floating down the river.

At least two people have died due to the flooding.

One fatality has been confirmed after a body was found in Burnet County along the Colorado River between Kingsland and Granite Shoals, according to Rep. Terry Wilson.

Llano County officials said a second body was recovered near a low water crossing, CBS Austin reported.

The river crested at 39.91 feet Tuesday morning, just below the all-time record of 41.5 feet.

Llano is located about 90 minutes to the northwest of Austin.

Some parts of Texas have received months’ worth of rain in several days.

Parts of central Texas have already received 4-8 inches of rain from Friday to Tuesday morning. This is the equivalent of an entire month’s worth of rain for October.

Shelters are being set up at First Baptist Church and Inman’s Kitchen in the City of Llano and the Kingsland Community Center, officials said.

Llano city officials said that the city is currently unable to treat water and residents are being asked to conserve water at this time.

Texas Gov. Gregg Abbott said the Texas State Operations Center has elevated its readiness level as severe weather and flooding impact the state.

“Please closely monitor changing weather conditions and heeding warnings from local officials,” he tweeted.

Earlier Tuesday, the National Weather Service in San Angelo, Texas, reported that water rescues were ongoing in Segovia and water was flowing over Interstate 10 at Johnson Fork Creek in Kimble County. A flash flood emergency was in effect until 7 a.m.