Business newsmakers: Viera Co. promotes Rey to VP for community management

Viera Co. promotes Rey to VP for community management

The Viera Co. has promoted Eva Rey to vice president for community management and communications

Rey joined The Viera Co. six year ago, with her most recent role being director of community management, amenities and communications.

Prior to coming to Viera, Rey served as town hall executive director for Lakewood Ranch, a large master-planned community near Sarasota/Bradenton.

In her new role, she will continue to perform her current community management, amenities and communications duties on behalf of The Viera Co., and also will provide oversight to The Viera Discovery Center.

Toth named chief operating officer at Modus Operandi

Peter Dyson, chief executive officer of Melbourne-based Modus Operandi, recently announced that retired Maj. Gen. Andrew Toth has been named the company’s chief operating officer.

Toth served 31 years in the U.S. Air Force, including his final leadership assignment as commander of the Air Force Personnel Center, where he ensured that commanders around the world were supplied with skilled airmen where and when needed to support Air Force and joint missions.

More: Business newsmakers: Jordan to head Brevard County's Transit Services Department

More: Business newsmakers: Goff to head local advertising association

While serving as a general officer, Toth led as both director of operations for Air Force’s Air Combat Command, where he was responsible for operational planning, training and command and control functions for regular and reserve component combat air forces; and as general manager of U.S. Air Forces Central Command, leading the execution of air operations of 16,000 airmen deployed across 22 nations in Central and Southwest Asia.

Toth earned his master’s degree in national security and strategic studies from the U.S. Naval War College; his master’s degree in military operational art and science from the U.S. Air Force Air Command and Staff College; and his bachelor’s degree from the U.S. Air Force Academy.

Modus Operandi, founded more than three decades ago, provides defense and commercial organizations with mission-critical data-centric software solutions.

Alpizar elected president of Brevard County Bar Association

David Alpizar recently was elected as president of the Brevard County Bar Association.

Alpizar, a partner with the Palm Bay-based Alpizar Law, received his undergraduate degree from the University of Florida, and graduated from the St. Thomas University School of Law in 2004.

Alpizar is focused on representing those injured in auto accidents and on unsafe premises. He also represents the estates, family members and survivors of loved ones lost due to the negligence of others.

Alpizar also is the spokesperson for the Drive Alive Public Service program, which is designed to increase awareness of safe driving among teens in Brevard County.

He is a member of the Freedom Christian Center, and an active member of the University of Florida Alumni Association.

Mason becomes president of Association of U.S. Army

The Association of the United States Army Space Coast Chapter recently held a change of command transition from long-term chapter President Phil LoSchiavo, a retired Army colonel, to incoming chapter President Corey Mason, a retired Army staff sergeant.

The event was hosted by Melbourne-based Bansbach Easylift of North America Inc., one of a number of AUSA Space Coast community partners.

LoSchiavo also gave an award of recognition to Bansbach Easylift for its support and assistance to AUSA Space Coast Chapter during his term as president.

There are more than 600 individual members of AUSA in the Space Coast Chapter, along with many “community partner” business members.

The Space Coast Chapter spans Brevard, Indian River, Martin, St. Lucie and Volusia counties.

“We celebrate over two centuries of bravery for the cause of liberty, freedom and the protection of the United States,” LoSchiavo said. “Most of these employers have an intimate relationship with the U.S. military, and many are members who have joined the Association of the U.S. Army. We greatly appreciate the commitment and support of our individual and business partners.”

Mason said the chapter was recognizing "the tremendous initiative and efforts of outgoing President Phil LoSchiavo, not only for his distinguished service in the U.S. Army, but also his four years as president, building the Space Coast Chapter of AUSA. My focus is to continue to grow and sustain the Space Coast Chapter, and increase the participation and involvement of individual members and business partners for the benefit of our soldiers.”

Bansbach President Robert Rose said his company "is excited to participate in this show of support for the men and women that selflessly serve our country and protect our freedom. We challenge all of Brevard’s employers to demonstrate their support by joining in with Space Coast Chapter of the AUSA.”

For more information on the AUSA-Space Coast Chapter go to http://www.ausaspacecoast.org/ or email: PSpaceCoast@AUSA.ORG

Melbourne Regional Chamber honors community leaders

The Melbourne Regional Chamber is presenting four awards for community excellence and involvement at its annual Impact Awards and Board Installation, presented by Shelter Mortgage Co.

During the awards celebration, the board chair, executive committee and directors at large for the chamber also are being installed.

Jeff Robison, president of Lightle, Beckner, Robison Inc. will be 2021 board chair for the Melbourne Regional Chamber, succeeding 2020 board Chair Todd Pokrywa of The Viera Co.

The 2020 Community Excellence Award is going to Publix. This award recognizes a company that uses their resources and vision to create a more sustainable and connected community with a focus on reaching underserved individuals.

“Publix played a key role in our community in this past year, as we navigated the pandemic,” Melbourne Regional Chamber President and Chief Executive Officer Michael Ayers said. “While many businesses closed down, Publix remained open and became a leader in health and safety measures to keep their employees and their customers in good health. They successfully navigated the unknowns without interruption to the services that so many of us in the community rely upon.”

The 2020 Business of the Year Award winner is Brent Peoples of Peoples Financial Planning of Raymond James. The Business of the Year must demonstrate innovative business strategies and practices with a focus on community engagement and employee relations.

“Brent Peoples has been instrumental in helping small businesses in Brevard County navigate these unprecedented times and remain afloat,” Ayers said.

Recently, Peoples was named Branch Manager of the Year for the Eastern Division of Raymond James.

The 2020 Corporate Impact of the Year Award is given to a company that focuses on a broad range of economic development activities that demonstrate substantial investment in the community. This year’s award goes to BPRH.

“BRPH’s growth has paralleled the economic development of the Space Coast and Florida as a whole,” Ayers said. “The firm’s ability to complete highly complex, highly technical and award-winning projects has helped many new and expanding companies and institutions cement their success here in our region and beyond.”

The 2020 William R. “Bill” Ellis Legacy Award goes to Joel Boyd of Boyd & Boyd P.A. The award is named for the late Bill Ellis, who died in 2017, and is given to an individual who, through his or her dedication to the Melbourne Regional Chamber and the broader community, has made a significant impact on the quality of life and business climate in Brevard County.

The award will be presented to Boyd by Jim Ridenour, past board chair for the chamber and the first-ever recipient of the Ellis Legacy Award.

Boyd has practiced law in Brevard County since 1978, and now practices with his son, Mark Boyd, at Boyd & Boyd P.A.

Joel Boyd served on the chamber’s board of directors and executive committee from 1982 to 1989, and played a direct role in founding numerous chamber "spinoffs," including Keep Brevard Beautiful and the Community Foundation for Brevard. He returned to the chamber’s board from 2005 to 2013 and served as board chair in 2009.

He continues to donate his time and talents to numerous community organizations, serving as president of the board of directors for Business Voice of Florida’s Space Coast; legal counsel and planned giving committee for United Way of Brevard; and president of the board of trustees and foundation president for the Brevard Museum of Arts and Science.

If you have a Business Newsmakers item you'd like to publish, please email details to Wayne T. Price at wtpkansas@yahoo.com or contact him at 321-223-0230.