BOCA RATON, Fla., Sept. 8, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- KRS Global Biotechnology is among 50 statewide companies expected to see significant growth over the next several years. KRS was selected from more than 500 nominees for Florida Companies to WatchSM, a statewide program managed by economic development group GrowFL, in association with the Edward Lowe Foundation.

KRS's management team, competitive market position and strong community involvement were among several factors that put them in contention for the award.

"These stand-out companies are all led by entrepreneurs, and have demonstrated their capacity and intent to grow," said Dr. Tom O'Neal, executive director of the Florida Economic Gardening Institute and associate vice president for the University of Central Florida's Oﬃce of Research and Commercialization. "They also all have critical intellectual property or a niche position that gives them a competitive edge in their markets," he said.

Joining KRS Global on the Florida Companies to Watch list are the following Florida-based businesses:

Accessibility Services, Inc. (Homossassa)

Atlantic Logistics Inc. (Jacksonville)

Auto Customs, LLC (Ocala)

Biological Tree Services (Sarasota)

Bruno Air Conditioning (Bonita Springs)

Coastal Cloud (Palm Coast)

CTI Physician Leadership Institute (Tampa)

Design Interactive, Inc. (Orlando)

edgefactory (Orlando)

Fit2Go (Miami)

GENICON (Winter Park)

GPS Industries, LLC (Sarasota)

Highway Systems Incorporated (Sumterville)

Ideal Aluminum Products (St. Augustine)

Image Skincare (Lantana)

Intelligent Retinal Imaging Systems, LLC (IRIS) (Pensacola)

IQ Formulations (Tamarac)

ISGF (Orlando)

ITS Fiber (Indiantown)

KRS Global Biotechnology (Boca Raton)

Leapfactor (Miami)

Locus Traxx Worldwide (Jupiter)

Logoup.com (Pompano Beach)

Modus Operandi, Inc. (Melbourne)

Moguldom Media Group LLC (Fort Lauderdale)

Momentum Consulting Corp. (Miami Lakes)

NanoPhotonica (Lake Mary)

Noble (Orlando)

Novel Engineering, Inc. (Cocoa Beach)

Orion Technologies, LLC (Orlando)

Pan American Food Brokers Inc. (Miami)

Quality Enclosures, Inc. (Sarasota)

QualityHub, Inc. (Orlando)

Quantachrome Corporation (Boynton Beach)

Red Lambda, Inc. (Longwood)

RIP-IT Sports (Orlando)

Rochester Electro-Medical, Inc. (Lutz)

RUSH Construction, Inc. (Titusville)

Savage Race (Orlando)

Source1 Purchasing (Boynton Beach)

Symphonic Distribution (Wesley Chapel)

Synergy Billing, LLC (Daytona Beach)

Technical Software Services, Inc. (Pensacola)

The Balmoral Group (Winter Park)

The Villages Insurance (The Villages)

Uproar PR (Orlando)

Victory Marketing Agency (Ft. Myers)

WomenCertified, Inc. (Hollywood)

YellowPepper (Miami)

Zobily (Sarasota)

"This is a strong group of companies that deserve this special recognition given annually to the state's top second stage companies," said Dr. O'Neal. Second-stage companies are defined as those with six to 99 full-time employees and between $750,000 and $50 million in annual revenue. There are many programs and incubators promoting start-up businesses; GrowFL is the only Florida program that focuses exclusively on second-stage companies.

The 50 companies named the 2015 Florida Companies to Watch generated a total of more than $1.2 billion in revenue and added nearly 1,000 employees between 2011 and 2014.

Together, the companies project a 23 percent increase in revenue and 19 percent increase in job growth in 2015.

Companies named to the list will be oﬃcially recognized November 5 at the Hard Rock Live, Universal CityWalk, Orlando.

For more information, visit flctw.growfl.com.

About KRS Global Biotechnology:

KRS is an industry-leading customized FDA registered and inspected 503b Human Outsourcing Facility that provides sterile and non-sterile compounding services to patients, surgery centers, ophthalmology clinics, hospitals, universities and veterinarians nationwide.

More About GrowFL:

GrowFL provides strategies, resources and support, including strategic research and peer-to-peer CEO mentoring and leadership development, to second-stage Florida companies. Created by the Florida legislature in 2009 and grounded in the philosophy of Economic Gardening® — growing existing businesses in a community, region or state — GrowFL is a critical component of the state's economic development strategy and Florida's entrepreneurial ecosystem. GrowFL is certified by the National Center for Economic Gardening through the Edward Lowe Foundation. Website: growfl.com

About the Edward Lowe Foundation:

Established in 1985, the Edward Lowe Foundation is a national, nonprofit organization that supports entrepreneurship through research, recognition and educational programs, which are delivered through entrepreneur support organizations (ESOs). The foundation focuses on second-stage companies — those that have moved beyond the startup phase and seek significant, steady growth. In addition, the foundation has a second mission of land stewardship and is committed to preserving the natural resources and historically significant structures at Big Rock Valley, its 2,600-acre home in southwest Michigan.

Contact: Stephen Duffie

[email protected]

561-430-2365

Logo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20150908/264338LOGO

SOURCE KRS Global Biotechnology