FRANKFORD — Skylands Park, dubbed the "Field of Dreams" when it first opened in a former farm field in Frankford Township nearly two decades ago, is expected to remain vacant again this summer as its owners struggle to sell it or find a new baseball tenant.

While several parties have expressed an interest in buying the 4,200-seat ballpark — which was listed for sale in May at $1.99 million — no deal has been finalized.

Several pro teams, including a couple affiliated with Major League Baseball, are considering leasing deals, but none has made a commitment that would allow pro baseball to return this season, said Duffy Brennan, a Sparta-based real estate agent who is handling the negotiations for ballpark owners Millenium Sports Management Corp.

"What is the prospect of having baseball there again this spring? Probably not. There’s a pretty good chance we’ll see baseball again, probably next year," he said.

Included in the sale price for the ballpark are a 16,000-square-foot fieldhouse with batting cages, a 7,500-square-foot clubhouse and an 8,000-square-foot day care center that is currently occupied. The 28-acre complex is in the heart of Sussex County at the intersection of Routes 206, 15 and 565.

An appeal is pending to lower the ballpark’s annual $125,000 property tax bill, based on a $6.7 million assessment, Brennan said.

Skylands Park opened in 1994 — at a cost of $9 million to $10 million — as the home of the New Jersey Cardinals, a Class A minor-league team affiliated with Major League Baseball’s St. Louis Cardinals.

While fans initially came out in droves — setting New York-Penn League records — to watch the Cardinals and possibly get a glimpse of a budding young star, attendance dropped dramatically in more recent years.

In 2006, the Cardinals were replaced by the Sussex County Skyhawks, which played in the independent Can-Am League, after the ballpark underwent $1.5 million in renovations.

Citing declining attendance, Skyhawks owner Floyd Hall Enterprises of Little Falls declined to renew the team’s five-year lease following the 2010 season and the ballpark became vacant.

Floyd Hall Enterprises also owns the New Jersey Jackals, a Can-Am team that plays its home games at Yogi Berra Stadium at Montclair State University.

Rob Hilliard, who was the driving force behind the construction of Skylands Park in the early 1990s, said the ballpark needs to host year-round events to be profitable.

The former Vernon resident ended his affiliation with Skylands Park after the 1997 baseball season.

"Skylands Park is vacant because nobody has stepped forward with the marketing vision, energy and financial wherewithal to fully utilize the facility for sports and entertainment events, and make the necessary upgrades and features to enable year-round usage," said Hilliard, who in 2007 established the Oakland County Cruisers, a Michigan team that played in the independent Frontier League.

Hilliard ended his affiliation with the Cruisers after the 2010 baseball season after failing to get financing for the construction of a new ballpark in southeast Michigan.