I thought George Miller’s ‘Mad Max: Fury Road’ (2015) was one of the most exciting, exhilarating and entertaining movies I’d ever seen… for the film’s first hour that is and then a vague tedium sets in. The immaculately executed action is extraordinary but the deliberately minimalistic plot, with its going from point A to point B then from point B back to point A again, means as the film goes on my engagement with it starts to decline. A sense of fatigue gradually creeps in.

‘Furiosa: A Mad Max Saga’ (2024) might not possess ‘Fury Road’s rattling forward momentum but it does many other things better, specifically variation, absorption and a more satisfying handling of pacing, so whereas with the previous entry I could feel my attention drifting with ‘Furiosa’ it was glued to the road for every single glorious second.

The film functions as a prequel to ‘Fury Road’ by showing Furiosa’s (Anya Taylor-Joy) origin story and while it might not be the ‘One Big Car Chase’ of its predecessor this allows more scope for interesting locations, emotions and characters. This is best exemplified by a movie-stealing performance by Chris Hemsworth as Dr. Dementus (a great name only surpassed by those of Scrotus and Rictus Erectus), a villain with considerably more depth and personality than the more one-note Immortan Joe.

Yet the film’s biggest surprise was the relationship between Furiosa and Praetorian Jack (Tom Burke) which shocked me with the intensity of how hooked I found myself by it. This added a vast level of involvement whenever the action kicked-off because there were genuine emotional stakes at play. I actually cared!

The way Miller spreads this action out across his tale is perfectly balanced this time round so even though it’s not one, long continuous chase the overall structure and pacing means it, perversely, feels more exciting than ‘Fury Road’ with the intensity levels building rather than dissipating.

The action itself is frequently astonishing and always visually arresting. There’s a sequence involving The War Rig fighting off ground and air-borne vehicles and Miller’s use of paragliders, their trailing tentacle-like tails giving them the appearance of giant floating sea creatures, is one of the most stunning vehicle sequences I’ve seen, both in terms of its thrill and visual appeal.

‘Furiosa: A Mad Max Saga’ is intensely satisfying, gripping and invigorating. It might not be the constant mayhem juggernaut of ‘Fury Road’ but it’s an example of how too much of a good thing can sometimes be counterproductive. Here Miller has got the combination just right and the result is possibly the best film of 2024 so far.