Telenovelas originating from all over Latin America have taken place in all sorts of environments. But have you ever seen one take place in the trucking industry? Didn’t think it was the type of industry you could write a soapy dramedy around? Think again, as the Colombian potboiler The Road To Love debuts on Netflix. Read on for more…

THE ROAD TO LOVE: STREAM IT OR SKIP IT?

Opening Shot: A truck known as “The Doll” rolls through Colombian roads. Then we see a young man doing an Instastory in front of The Doll.

The Gist: The Briceño family has been in trucking for decades, and “The Doll” has been its pride and joy. Like every year, the semi has been entered into the annual semi-truck race, and the family’s youngest, Cecilia aka “La Chiqui” (Katherine Escobar Farfan) is decorating it so it looks its best during the race.

She wants to drive and be an important part of the family business, but in the macho world of trucking, it feels like the attitudes of her father Armando (Cesar Mora) and older brothers are old fashioned, to put it kindly. They all think she should be virginal and just be at home being a dutiful wife to someone. But Chiqui has other ideas.

The only person in the family who thinks she should do what she wants is Peluche (Juan Manuel Restrepo), her father’s godson, who’s been living with the family since he was a kid. He’s desperately in love with Chiqui but has never told her. She’s in her own relationship, with a man named Samuel (Mario Espitia), who gives Chiqui the same exact sweet nothings he doles out to his actual girlfriend.

A loan shark is ready to repossess The Doll due to the debts the family patriarch owes. Chiqui puts him off and says that they’ll win the race, despite her father’s age and recent penchant for accidents, and pay him off. If they don’t win, then he can have The Doll. She backs that up by helping her father win, taking the shifter when his hand went numb. But when he realizes she knows how to drive a semi, he explodes, and gets angry at Peluche for teaching her. She storms off in the truck… taking a tool box full of winnings with her.

When the truck gets stuck in some mud after Peluche tries to straighten out Chiqui’s anger steering, he finally tells her his feelings. But she passes out. When she finally comes to in the hospital, everyone there — including Chiqui — gets surprising news.

Our Take: If you weren’t sure that The Road To Love (Original title: Los Briceño) was a telenovela, all you need to do is listen to the soundtrack and then watch all of the over-the-top characters get themselves in over-the-top situations. Oh, and then if you look at the first season on Netflix and see that it includes a whopping 63 episodes, you know that this is going to bring the crazy in every episode.

The idea of building a telenovela around a family of truckers is inspired, and producer Juan Carlos Villamizar has done a nice job of setting up the situation well in the first episode. It’s fun to watch the Briceño family dote over The Doll as if it’s a member of the family, and show how much pride the family has taken in winning the annual race in the past.

But it feels like the only parts of the show that are actually taking place in 2019 are Chiqui and the ever-supportive Peluche. Chiqui is a modern young woman, constantly pushing back against her older brother Toronja (Jose Daniel Cristancho), who thinks Chiqui shouldn’t be wearing short shorts or navigating the semi cab during the race. It feels like Armando’s gender politics haven’t changed since 1969, given the way he refused to let his obviously skilled daughter learn to drive a semi.

Yes, this is Colombia, where family structure is tighter than it is here, and women often live at home until they’re married. But it still seems like the conflict between Chiqui and the men in the family belongs in something we might have seen on an early ’90s Telemundo series, not in a 2019 telenovela.

That being said, the entire series is being built on the fact that Chiqui gets kicked out of the family because of the surprise at the end of the episode, and her desire to make it as a trucker without her family’s help. Maybe as we see her become more empowered the show will improve. But the fact that every man in her life treats her like a “little lady” just doesn’t jibe with today’s sensibilities.

Sex and Skin: Nothing beyond Chiqi’s short shorts. We’re sure there will be more follies in the future, but the series is rated TV-14, so it won’t get too sexy.

Parting Shot: Chiqui finds out that she passed out due to low blood sugar. But she’s fine and so is the baby. “Baby?” she asks.

Sleeper Star: Jose Daniel Cristancho is good as the sexist pig Toronja, mainly because he breaks out in song to try to delay the loan shark from chasing down Chiqui in the semi.

Most Pilot-y Line: “The problem is: We’re 19 years into the 21st century and you still don’t get it,” says Chiqui to Toronja, a clunky way to say “2019”.

Our Call: STREAM IT. For telenovela lovers, The Road To Love checks all the boxes. But the gender politics are so old fashioned, it may be a turn off.

Joel Keller (@joelkeller) writes about food, entertainment, parenting and tech, but he doesn’t kid himself: he’s a TV junkie. His writing has appeared in the New York Times, Slate, Salon, , , Fast , , Billboard and elsewhere.