New York - Live Gamer (www.livegamer.com ), the world's first combined digital commerce and advertising platform for the interactive entertainment industry, announced today that it will power the virtual economy in Rise of Immortals, the new Multiplayer Online Battle Arena (MOBA) game from Petroglyph.

Petroglyph has broken new ground in the MOBA genre with free-to-play Rise of Immortals, and has introduced unique socialization features like a social hub where players can show off their enhanced Immortals, a chat system, leader boards, and friend lists, an innovative character progression system, persistent level progression and skill trees, as well as cooperative Player versus Environment (PvE) mode – without the upfront cost of a typical MOBA game. Virtual goods and microtransactions let players engage and advance within Rise of Immortals at their own price point and pace, offering an experience that truly stands apart from existing MOBA titles in the market.

Petroglyph has integrated the Live Gamer Elements platform into Rise of Immortals to drive the game's virtual economy. As a complete monetization engine, Live Gamer Elements includes virtual and digital goods catalog management, earned and bought currency support, item storefronts and merchandising, as well as deep analytics and international payment gateways.

"Petroglyph has built quite a bit of innovation into Rise of Immortals, bringing players features and game play that are new to the MOBA genre," said Andrew Schneider, President and Co-Founder, Live Gamer. "We're excited to be working with them to power some of these new features, and wish them the best of luck with the release."

"Live Gamer's Elements technology allowed us to quickly develop micro-transaction inventory, catalog and price management systems for Rise of Immortals," said Steve Wetherill, Producer at Petroglyph Games. "Elements proved to be a great match for our requirements, enabling us to focus our development efforts on our game and at the same time shortening our time to market."

About Live Gamer

Live Gamer (www.livegamer.com ) is the world's first combined digital commerce and advertising platform. With an advanced microtransaction and virtual economy engine, global payment gateways, worldwide ad network and video incentive advertising platform, Live Gamer helps online entertainment companies drive maximize revenue from their content, and connects advertisers to a network of over 48 million users. Live Gamer's technology has been adopted by leading publishers in gaming, entertainment and social including Facebook, Electronic Arts, Take 2, Sony Online, Namco Networks, REAL Networks and THQ. Advertisers on the Live Gamer Media network include Blizzard, KFC, Best Buy and Sony Computer Entertainment. For more information on Live Gamer and its Elements, Ad Elements, and gamerDNA media services, please visit www.livegamer.com.

About Petroglyph

Founded in 2003, Petroglyph Games, Inc. is an award-winning, independent game development studio located in Las Vegas, Nevada. The Petroglyph team specializes in Multiplayer Online Battle Arena (MOBA), Online Real-Time Strategy (RTS) and Action/RPG games, leveraging the experience gained from developing original hit franchises for PC and consoles. Petroglyph uses their proprietary GLYPHXSM Online game engine, tools and technology to power their next-generation titles.

For more information about Petroglyph, please visit www.petroglyphgames.com .