DALLAS, July 10, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- Southwest Airlines® (NYSE: LUV) is on a mission to hire an additional 650 Customer Service Representatives at call centers in Albuquerque, N.M.; Phoenix; and San Antonio. Southwest Airlines Customer Service Representatives provide the legendary Customer Service Southwest Airlines is known for while resolving Customer concerns, providing information, and assisting with reservations.

"A passion for helping people is a key to success in Southwest's Customer Service Representative role," said Julie Weber, Vice President People. "We are looking for hardworking, fun-loving, and caring people who will give their all to help connect our Customers to what's important in their lives."

Southwest is frequently recognized as a best place to work. Most recently: 21 consecutive years on FORTUNE's list of World's Most Admired Companies (#7 in 2015); ranked as the top airline employer and one of the top 20 best employers overall on Forbes' list of America's Best Employers; and named One of the Best Places to Work in 2015 by Glassdoor.

More than just a paycheck, a career at Southwest Airlines comes with several perks, from Southwest's legendary Culture to travel privileges for Employees and their eligible dependents. Southwest offers an excellent benefits package, including a very generous dollar-for-dollar match in the 401(k) plan, subject to vesting requirements, as well as a ProfitSharing Plan, which, for 2014, contributed approximately five weeks of pay toward retirement accounts for eligible Employees.

Experience working in customer service is preferred. Interested applicants should apply now at Southwest.com/careers.

ABOUT SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO.

In its 45th year of service, Dallas-based Southwest Airlines (NYSE: LUV) continues to differentiate itself from other air carriers with exemplary Customer Service delivered by more than 47,000 Employees to more than 100 million Customers annually. Southwest operates more than 3,600 flights a day, serving 95 destinations across the United States and six additional countries. Southwest service to Belize City, Belize, begins Oct. 15, 2015, and Liberia, Costa Rica, on Nov. 1, 2015, both routes are subject to foreign government approval.

Based on the U.S. Department of Transportation's most recent data, Southwest Airlines is the nation's largest carrier in terms of originating domestic passengers boarded. The Company operates the largest fleet of Boeing aircraft in the world, the majority of which are equipped with satellite-based WiFi providing gate-to-gate connectivity while over the United States. That connectivity enables Customers to use their personal devices to access streaming music provided by Beats Music or to view video on-demand movies and television shows, as well as nearly 20 channels of free, live TV compliments of our valued Partners. Southwest is the only major U.S. airline to offer bags fly free® to everyone (first and second checked pieces of luggage, size and weight limits apply, some airlines may allow free checked bags on select routes or for qualified circumstances), and there are no change fees, though fare differences might apply. In 2014, the airline proudly unveiled a bold new look: Heart. The new aircraft livery, airport experience, and logo, showcase the dedication of Southwest Employees to connect Customers with what's important in their lives.

From its first flights on June 18, 1971, Southwest Airlines launched an era of unprecedented affordability in air travel described by the U.S. Department of Transportation as "The Southwest Effect," a lowering of fares and increase in passenger traffic whenever the carrier enters new markets. With 42 consecutive years of profitability, Southwest is one of the most honored airlines in the world, known for a triple bottom line approach that contributes to the carrier's performance and productivity, the importance of its People and the communities they serve, and an overall commitment to efficiency and the planet. The 2014 Southwest Airlines One Report™ can be found at SouthwestOneReport.com.

Book Southwest Airlines' low fares online at Southwest.com or by phone at 800-I-FLY-SWA.

To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/southwest-airlines-now-hiring-650-customer-service-representatives-300111587.html

SOURCE Southwest Airlines