About Us

Top-rated Learning Centers and schools throughout Palm Beach, Broward, and Miami-Dade Counties

For over 30 years, we have provided an integrated array of academic support and guidance services to students of all ages:

Academic Support:

Motivational tutoring in all subjects

Test prep: SAT, ACT, EOC, FSA, SSAT, TOEFL, GRE, GMAT, LSAT, GED, and more

Study & organization skills

Private school: full-time & part time

Courses for academic credit

Summer school

Services for students with learning disabilities and ADD/ADHD

Academic Guidance:

College counseling

Boarding school planning

Local school selection

Graduate school admissions

Therapeutic boarding school & wilderness placements

Curriculum planning & support for homeschooling families

We are proud to be the only such family of personalized Learning Centers/schools accredited by SACS CASI (Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Council on Accreditation and School Improvement) and AdvancED, reflecting our ongoing dedication to quality services that help our students score at the top of their potential.

Frequently Asked Questions

Tutoring, full-time schooling, courses for credit, test prep, college and grad school planning, and more. As our name implies, we deliver an array of educational services with one goal in mind: to help students do their very best in every aspect of their education. We are mentoring, personalized, and effective. Our students acquire skills for today, feed their curiosity, and develop learning habits to support an independent, fulfilling life.

Teachers, tutors, and mentors are degreed professionals with a passion for teaching. They evoke the very best from students. We primarily engage students one-on-one — and also offer very small group learning opportunities in our schools and test-prep workshops. Using the best resources available, we cater our work to a student’s individual learning style and schedule. From remedial to AP, our teachers guide students to perform at the top of their ability.

We are proud to be the only Florida family of personalized learning centers/schools accredited by AdvancED and SACS CASI (Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Council on Accreditation and School Improvement), reflecting our ongoing dedication to continuous improvement and quality services that help our students score at the top of their potential. In an intimate environment, we reduce anxiety and maximize every learning experience.

Score At The Top’s school, Score Academy, is best defined by two things: mentoring interactions and individualization. Our classrooms are as small as 1-on-1, and grow no larger than 6-on-1! That translates into highly personalized education in a caring, secure environment. We serve students at every level, from high functioning ASD to the highest achieving, and everything in between. Our students have matriculated to a wide range of colleges, including Palm Beach State, Lynn, University of Florida, Boston University, Syracuse, University of Denver, University of Pennsylvania, University of Southern California, Duke, Stanford, and so many more.

Virtually every subject at virtually every level! We employ a diverse group of professionals in our five Florida locations and via Skype. From remedial classes to every AP course, we have you covered (we can even help you when you’re in college).

Score At The Top was founded on SAT prep; our founder, Judi Robinovitz, literally wrote the book (check out her bio)! Since our founding in 1980, we have expanded our services to include myriad tests, including: SAT, PSAT, ACT, SAT Subject Tests, AP/IB/AICE Exams, SSAT, ISEE, LSAT, GRE, GMAT, MCAT, GED, EOC, and TOEFL.

No matter a student’s ability, academic plans, or academic challenges, Score At The Top provides individualized, personalized education to bring out the best. Over the decades, we’ve helped thousands of students achieve their educational goals. We can do the same for you.

Our learning center directors will meet with students and parents to review immediate needs, and to pair the student with the best-match tutor. Our personable staff is always focused on what’s best for the student. Click on this link to review our client testimonials.

Call (844) GET-1600 or email a location to set up a free consultation so that we can meet you to discuss how we’ll work together to meet your learning goals.