Background

Storer Communications (formerly "Storer Programs Inc." and "Storer Broadcasting, Inc.") was a television production and distribution unit of Storer Communications, Inc. established in 1963 with the acquisition of its first cable television system. However, Storer merged with Gillett Broadcasting and Wometco Broadcasting to form "SCI Television". In 1985, Storer formed a joint venture with Blair Entertainment to produce first-run syndicated programming such as Divorce Court and Break the Bank. SCI is later merged with New World Entertainment in December 1993. Today, WJBK-TV in Detroit, WAGA-TV in Atlanta, and WITI-TV in Milwaukee are now owned by Fox Television Stations, WJW-TV in Cleveland is now owned by Nexstar Media Group, WSBK-TV in Boston is now owned by Paramount Global, KNSD-TV in San Diego is now owned by NBCUniversal, and WTVG-TV in Toledo is now owned by Gray Television.

1st Logo (September 24, 1963-1965)

Visuals: Superimposed in the end credits, a white signpost is seen with a curled piece on top, and a sign attached to two chain links. The sign says "Storer Programs INCORPORATED".

Variants:

On some episodes, "FOR" is seen inside of the blank space left by the curled line.

On later, colored episodes of The Littlest Hobo, the logo is larger and scrolls up screen after a credit for Canamac Pictures. As it scrolls up, 2 additional signs are attached, one with "and" in it, and another with a credit for Television Artists & Producers Corp.

Technique: A superimposed graphic.

Audio: The closing theme of the show.

Availability: It's seen on original syndicated airings of The Littlest Hobo.

2nd Logo (1979-1983)

Visuals: On a black background is the Storer logo zooming out and flashing in blue repeatedly as it becomes metallic colored and then the words "A Presentation of" and "Broadcasting Company" pop in above and below the Storer logo in the same metallic color. There is a shine wipe effect on the text. After the logo sequence is done animating, the respective station logo appears below.

Trivia: Also known as "Storer Communications, Inc.". Their slogan was "Moving with the technology of the times".

Variant: There is a still version of this logo without the station logo at the bottom.

Technique: Motion-controlled animation.

Audio:

1979-1983: A funky electric guitar riff followed by a few notes from a soprano saxophone. Afterwards, some broadcasts feature a beeping vamp from a Fender Rhodes piano with backing from the funky electric guitar.

1979-1983: Another funky, albeit mellow tune was used. This was typically seen on late newscasts at the time.

Availability: It was found at the end of Storer produced local programming (such as local newscasts).

3rd ID (1983-1987)

Visuals: During the parting screen of the show, a screen flips in. On the screen is a lined dark blue-black gradient background which is spinning clockwise. The text "A PRESENTATION OF" zooms out along with the logo of the news station underneath. After a couple of seconds, the background quits spinning and the background "shines" from bottom to top wiping away the text. The Storer logo flashes in and glitters along with copyright information. The final product looks like this:

STORER

COMMUNICATIONS·INC

The first "R" in Storer extends down and through the underline.

Variants:

On editions of WJBK TV2 Eyewitness News aired after the transition to SCI Television, the logo freezes after the WJBK logo has finished animating, possibly to cover up any Storer references. Other former Storer stations post-1985 may have used similar variants.

Sometimes, there is a copyright stamp below the logo.

In-credit variations of the logo exist.

Technique: Computer animation.

Audio: A synthesized piece of music with a high pitched piece in the background. Other times, it's the closing theme of the program.