The Military Ordinariate of the Philippines or MOP is a personal diocese[1] for the Armed Forces of the Philippines, Philippine National Police, and the Philippine Coast Guard. It has jurisdiction over all military, police and coast guard personnel, their dependents, and the civilian employees of all branches of the armed forces. Its titular patron is the Immaculate Conception, and for secondary patrons it has St. Ignatius of Loyola and St. John of Capistrano. The current Military Bishop is Leopoldo Tumulak.

Contents

1 History

2 Military Ordinary

2.1 Former Bishops of the Military Ordinariate

2.2 Current Bishop

3 Jurisdiction

4 Subjects

5 Chaplains

6 Noncombatant status

7 See also

8 References

9 External links

History

The Military Ordinariate of the Philippines was erected as a Military Vicariate on December 8, 1950, decreed by Pope Pius XII through the Consistoriat Decree Ad consulendum.[2] It was accepted by the Philippine Government in a diplomatic Agreement which took effect through the exchange of Notes Verbal in 1952[3] between the Philippines Foreign Secretary, Jaime Elizalde and the Papal Nuncio to the Philippines, Archbishop Vagnozzi.[4] Rufino Jiao Santos, then Auxiliary Bishop of Manila, took possession of this Vicariate and became the first Military Vicar in the country.

On April 12, 1986, Pope John Paul II issued the Apostolic Constitution Spirituale militum curae which took effect on July 21, 1986. This Papal document was unique in that it began a new structure for all Military Vicariates all over the world, elevating these Vicariates to the level of Ordinariates and placing them on the same status of territorial dioceses.

The Military Ordinariate has its own curia and exercises its pastoral ministry through military, police, and coast guard chaplains assigned to the different branches of service within the AFP as well as the PNP and PCG. The exact number of the faithful who come under this jurisdiction is considered classified information, but it is 90 percent Catholic.

The priests of the Military Ordinariate of the Philippines, who are mostly diocesan, carry military, police, and coast guard officers' ranks and are assigned in the different AFP, PNP, and Coast Guard command posts all over the country.

The Ordinariate's Principal Church is St. Ignatius Military Cathedral located in Camp General Emilio Aguinaldo Quezon City, Philippines. It also has a Pro-Cathedral for the Philippine National Police — the St. Joseph Pro-Cathedral located in Camp Crame, Quezon City — and a diocesan shrine, the Shrine of St. Therese of the Child Jesus, Doctor of the Church, in Pasay City, Metro Manila.

Military Ordinary

The Military Ordinary, who is always a Filipino-born member of the Philippine church hierarchy, is appointed by the Holy See in consultation with the Philippine Government.[5] The Supreme Pontiff freely nominates the Military Ordinary, who is normally a bishop; or institutes or confirms the candidate legitimately designated in accordance with the Canon Law.[6] He longs by right to the Catholic Bishops' Conference of the Philippines and is subject to the Congregation for Bishops.[7]

Former Bishops of the Military Ordinariate

Rufino Jiao Santos, (before being transferred to the Archdiocese of Manila)

Bishop Mariano Gaviola- Former of bishop of Diocese of cabanatuan in Nueva Ecija, later served the ordinariate from 1974 to 1981. Subsequently transferred as Archbishop of Lipa.

Bishop Pedro G.Magugat, MSC- Transferred to head the Diocese of urdaneta in Pangasinan on April 22, 1985 as its first Resident Bishop of the newly-erected jurisdiction.

Bishop Severino Pelayo- a priest from Candaba in Pampanga, appointed ordinary from 1985 until his untimely death in 1995.

Archbishop Ramon Arguelles,(before being transferred to the Archdiocese of Lipa)

Current Bishop

LEOPOLDO S. TUMULAK- Former bishop of Tagbilaran in Bohol.

Birth: November 29, 1944

Place of Birth: Santander, Cebu

Sacerdotal Ordination: March 30, 1972 in Cebu

Episcopal Ordination: March 16, 1987 in Metropolitan Cathedral of Cebu

EDUCATION

Primary: Mainit Primary School; Oslob, Cebu, 1950-1954

Elementary: Santander Elementary School; Santander, Cebu, 1954–1956

High School: St. Mary's Academy; Oslob, Cebu, 1956–1959

Seminario Menor de San Carlos; Mabolo, Cebu, 1959–1963

Seminario Major de San Carlos; Mabolo, Cebu, 1963–1972

MA in Education Administration: Colegio de SanJose Recoletos; Cebu, 1983

MINISTRY

1972-1993- Assistant Parish Priest, Cebu Metropolitan Cathedral

1973-1978- Dean of Studies and Treasurer, Pope John XXIII Minor Seminary, Mabolo, Cebu

1978-1986

Rector, Principal, Pope John XIII Minor Seminary, Mabolo, Cebu

Member, Cebu Archdiocesan Priests Senate

1979-1984- Coordinator, Directors of Vocations in the Philippines

1982-1994- Chairman, Justice and Peace Commission, Church-Military Liaison, Cebu

1982-1993- Diocesan Consultor, Cebu

1983-1985- Spiritual Director, Spiritual Pastoral Formation Year, Cebu

1983-1986- Team Priest, World Wide Marriage Encounter

1985-1993- Chairman, Commission on Formation-IV, Diocesan Synod of Cebu

1986-1993

Chairman, Commission on Seminaries

Parish Priest, San Nicolas Parish, Cebu City

Member, Crisis Assistance Team

1987- Vice President, Alumni Association, Seminario Major de San Carlos, Cebu

1988-1992- Member, Episcopal Commission on Biblical Apostolate

1990-1992- Member, Episcopal Commission on Catechesis and Catholic Education

1993

Member, Episcopal Commission on Social Action, Justice and Peace

Member, Episcopal Commission on Ecumenical Affairs

Member, CBCP Permanent Council

Chairman, Episcopal Committee on the Cultural Heritage of the Church

Jurisdiction

Personal – The jurisdiction of the Military Ordinary is personal over all subjects of the Military Ordinariate. It is exercised independently of geographical territory as a ministry for the faithful determined by personal circumstances.[8]

Ordinary – That is, attached by law to the office itself.[9]

Proper – This jurisdiction is exercised by the Military Ordinary in his own name.[10]

Cumulative – It is not exclusive. It is exercised within those territories that are subject to local Ordinaries, and therefore it does not preempt their authority nor the authority of the local parish priests. Insofar as the subjects of the Military Ordinariate are concerned, they are at the same time, in a cumulative manner, subjects of the local Ordinary and the pastor of the place where they reside. In permanent military, police or coastguard installations, camps, bases, forts and in places reserved for the personnel of these Philippine Government's uniformed forces, the jurisdiction is primarily and principally exercised by the Military Ordinary.[11]

Subjects

The following are the subjects of the Military Ordinary:

All Catholic Chaplains in active military, police, or coastguard service.

All civilian priests, diocesan or religious, who are properly and officially appointed as volunteer Chaplains in the service of the Military Ordinariate.

All Catholic military, police, and coastguard personnel in the active service.

All Catholic civilian employees, their spouses and children, residing either inside or outside the military, police or coastguard installations.

All families of active military, police or coastguard personnel, namely, then spouses, children, servants, and those who habitually live within the same house, whether inside or outside military installation.

All the faithful of both sexes who dwell inside military, police, or coastguard installations, or in homes reserved by the civil government for military, police, or coastguard personnel and their families.

All the faithful, who live or work in military hospitals, hospices for the elderly, or similar institutions.

All the faithful, both men and women, whether or not they are members of a religious institute, who carry out in a permanent way a task committed to them by the Military Ordinary, or with his consent.[12]

Chaplains

Priests who wish join the Chaplain Services of the Armed Forces of the Philippines, the Philippine National Police, and the Philippine Coast Guard are required to satisfy both ecclesiastical requirements and the requirements of the government's uniformed services they are entering. The endorsement of the Military Ordinary is among the most important ecclesiastical requirements. The Military Ordinary submits the names of priests for "call to active duty" (CAD). He gives the Chaplains and civilian priests who work for the Filipino uniform men and women the canonical faculties to exercise their spiritual ministry among the subjects of the Military Ordinariate.

Chaplains in active duty are given the initial rank of Captain or its equivalent in other uniformed services of the government. They enjoy the progatives and privileges of the rest of the officers belonging to the same grade or rank in the service.

Chaplains in active service who are not incardinated into the Military Ordinariate may be subject to recall by their respective Bishop of origin, even without cause.On the other hand, the Military Ordinary can withdraw his endorsement for cause. The chaplain whose endorsement has thus been withdrawn are to report to their Diocesan Bishop or Religious Superior as soon as possible. Chaplains whose tour of active service is terminated are to revert to their respective dioceses, or religious orders, or as otherwise advised or directed by their respective Diocesan Bishops or Religious Superiors.

Noncombatant status

See: Military chaplain#Noncombatant status

See also

Patron saints of the military

Roman Catholicism in the Philippines

References