Kayaker Dostál wins Czechia's third gold medal at 2024 Paris Olympics

With his victory in the men’s kayak single 1000m, Josef Dostál completes his collection following silver and bronze medals from previous Olympic Games.

Prague police investigating negligence in case of man killed by fallen cornice

The victim of the freak accident that occurred in Prague on Thursday has been identified as a 46-year-old man and father of three from Ukraine.

Prague's new bus stop request system gets off to a bumpy start

The decision to make all bus stops on the Prague and Central Bohemia network 'request stops' has confused and concered many, especially older travelers.

Czech news in brief for August 10: Saturday's top headlines

Fennec fox safely returned to Prague Zoo, Czech Labour Ministry fined for Christmas party, and more weekend headlines.

Czechia claims its second gold at 2024 Paris Olympics with record-breaking win

Seasoned canoeist Martin Fuksa won his first Olympics medal on his third attempt, also breaking the Olympic record for the 1,000-meter C1 race.

White House invites Americans abroad to weigh in on issues that matter

A news initiative asks US citizens living abroad to take a survey designed to gather input on key issues.

Suspicious luggage discovered at Prague Airport prompts evacuation

The incident comes on the heels of a separate security scare in Austria which saw the cancelation of three sold-out Taylor Swift concerts in Vienna.

Czech news in brief for August 9: Friday's top headlines

Czech Foreign Ministry advises caution in Austria, suspicous baggage discovered at Prague Airport, Lazarská Street building owners liable for maintenance.

Prices for new apartments in Prague reach highest point in history

Despite surges in prices, demand is also growing (as are sales numbers) – analysts say that this is due to lower interest rates.

Study: Prague is among the best cities in Europe to retire

The study assessed various cities in Europe, evaluating average rents, cities’ cost of living, healthcare, the number of green spaces, and more.

Czech news in brief for August 8: Thursday's top headlines

New political parties aim to impact elections, tourism numbers on the rise in Czechia, and terror threat cancels Taylor Swift's Vienna shows.

New exhibit brings seaside holidays – and the appeal of Czech naive art – to the canvas

Slávka Krátká is set to unveil her latest exhibition, Cities in the Café, at Kavárna co hledá jméno in Prague's Smíchov district.

Real wages in Czechia have slumped in the last five years

Owing to high inflation and only-incremental pay rises, some professions in Czechia report pay cuts of up to 25 percent.

Criminal complaint filed against Czech political party for racist campaign

A criminal complaint has been filed against the Freedom and Direct Democracy (SPD) over a campaign using images of a black man holding a knife.

Czech news in brief for August 7: Wednesday's top headlines

Tropical heat alert for Prague on Wednesday, Prague reevaluates Metro D tender, and Czechia sees highest Lyme disease cases in 10 years.

Forbidden quarries attract swimmers in Czechia – which nature spots are off-limits?

While the quarries may appear abandoned, most are still active and prepared for mining operations.