Vardan Khachatryan Origin/Culture/Country: Armenian

Vardan Khachatryan: is a former Armenian football defender. He was a member of the national team, and has played 30 matches and scored 1 goals since his debut in 1992, in friendly match against Moldova

Vardan Minasyan Origin/Culture/Country: Armenian

Vardan Minasyan: is an Armenian football manager and former player, midfielder.He started manager's career at Pyunik as assistant coach. Prior to his appointment as manager of Armenia national team, Minasyan was also the assistant coach of Ian Porterfield, along with fellow assistant coach Tom Jones.

Vardan Oskanyan Origin/Culture/Country: Armenian

Vardan Oskanyan: served as the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Armenia during the administration of Robert Kocharyan (1998 – 2008).A few years later, in 1988, he enrolled in the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy in Boston, Massachusetts. He received an M.A. in Law and Diplomacy from Fletcher. His fields of concentration were International Monetary Theory and Policy, and Diplomatic History and Foreign Policies.

Vardan Aramovich Grigoryan Origin/Culture/Country: Russian

Vardan Aramovich Grigoryan: is a Russian professional football player. As of September 2009, he plays in the Russian Second Division for FC Astrakhan.

Vardan Mazalov Origin/Culture/Country: Russian

Vardan Mazalov: is an Uzbek SSR born Russian football striker currently with Russian First Division club Anzhi Makhachkala.

Ernest Vardanean Origin/Culture/Country: Ukrainian

Ernest Vardanean: is a journalist and political scientist who lives in the breakaway Moldovan region of Transnistria. He was arrested on 7 April 2010 by the self-proclaimed forces in Tiraspol charged of high treason in favor of the Republic of Moldova. Vardanian graduated from the Faculty of Political Science of the Moldova State University; he speaks 5 languages; He run in 2005 election for Parliament of Transnistria, but his campaign failed. He is one of the founders of the Pridnestrovian Armenians Union and is a member of the organisation’s board.

Yurik Vardanian Origin/Culture/Country: Armenian

Yurik Vardanian: is a former Olympic weightlifter for the USSR. He trained at Lokomotiv in Leninakan. Vardanyan won the gold medal at the 1980 Summer Olympics, becoming the world's first weightlifter to achieve 400 point totals in 82.5 kg weight category.

Yurik Norairovich Vardanian Origin/Culture/Country: Arabic

Yurik Norairovich Vardanian: is a former Olympic weightlifter for the USSR. He trained at Lokomotiv in Leninakan, Armenia. Vardanian won the gold medal at the 1980 Summer Olympics, becoming the world's first weightlifter to achieve a 400 kilogram total in the 82.5 kg weight category.

Tigran Vardanjan Origin/Culture/Country: Russian

Tigran Vardanjan: is a Russian figure skater who competes internationally for Hungary. He is the 2007-2009 Hungarian national champion. He is coached by his parents, Gurgen Vardanjan and Jeranjak Ipakjan.

Harutyun Vardanyan Origin/Culture/Country: Armenian

Harutyun Vardanyan: is a former Armenian football defender. He spent most of his club career in the Swiss Super League playing for Lausanne, Young Boys, Servette and Aarau. Vardanyan was also a key defender for the Armenia national team, having played 63 international matches and scored 1 goal sice his debut in away friendly match against United States on May 15, 1994.