The popularity of symphonic metal is once again growing and, in part, we can thank Swedish cinematic/symphonic metal band, The Murder of My Sweet. Odd name, perhaps, however, according to the band the name was inspired by the 1944 film noir, Murder, My Sweet, and in many ways it is a befitting moniker.

The Murder Of My Sweet was formed in 2007 by drummer, Daniel Flores, who also contributes the poignant keyboards to the band’s unique and addicting sound.

Fronted by female vocalist, Angelica Rylan, who’s powerful, haunting vocals transcend you to a time where darkness and mystery ruled the streets and our lives. Listen to any track on album, close your eyes and easily picture a scene from the film noir era with Angelica’s lyrical voice playing softly in the background.

Originally signing with Frontiers Music, Srl in, 2009, the band released their first studio album, Divanity, in 2010. The album was well received by music fans and the media. Before the release of their second album, TMOMS spent a couple of years touring with the international music festival circuit, however differences of opinion as to the direction of the second caused them to sever their relationship with the Frontiers label and their next second album, Bye, Bye, Lullaby, was released under Germany based AFM Records.

Now back under the management of Italian record label, Frontiers Music, Srl, The Murder of My Sweet released, Beth Out Of Hell in, 2015, and now, Echoes Of The Aftermath, their fourth studio album, on January 27, 2017.

Fans of American singer/songwriter, Amy Lee, will love this collection of music! Fans of film production and musical scores will love this collection of music! Music fans, in general, will love this collection of music! The album crosses over into several “metal” music genres, attracting harsh hardcore metal fans, as well, those who prefer the softer side of melodic metal. Whether you are 15 or 150, the tracks on Echoes Of The Aftermath, will withstand the test of time. It is a perfect album for entertaining. Put it on replay for your murder mystery game night, a wine tasting get together, your next film and music awards party or simply do what I do…just turn it on and turn it up!

Echoes Of The Aftermath is available through Amazon and all other reputable music retailers. Find their music on iTunes, Spotify and various other music websites. The Murder Of My Sweet will be touring soon. Keep up with their schedule and follow along with them on their website: themurderofmysweet.com and find them on social media by searching, @tmomsband.

LISTEN TO ECHOES OF THE AFTERMATH

Echoes Of The Aftermath Track Listing:

Sleeping Giant

Personal Hell

Racing Heart

Cry Wolf

Echoes Of The Aftermath

Flatline

Loud As A Whisper

Shining After Dark

Ode To Everyone

Go On

In Risk Of Rain

Inside Outside

The Murder Of My Sweet is:

Angelica Rylin – Vocals

Christopher Vetter – Guitar

Patrik Janson – Bass

Daniel Flores – Drums and Keyboards

Siege / BackStage360