The legendary Pacific Northwest musician died 23 years ago on April 5. Here are famous local spots that are part of Nirvana history.

SEATTLE, WA — Twenty-three years ago on April 5, Kurt Cobain committed suicide at his home along Lake Washington Boulevard in Seattle. The Nirvana founder and grunge icon left millions of fans, and a trail of history behind him. If you're curious about the legacy of Cobain, here are five places in Washington state you can visit.

Viretta Park, 151 Lake Washington Blvd E, Seattle, WA — This city park is located near the house where Cobain committed suicide. At the park, there's a bench that serves as a makeshift memorial to Cobain.

Linda's Tavern, 707 E Pine St, Seattle, WA — Cobain aside, Linda's is a legitimate piece of Seattle history. It's also the last place Cobain was seen in public before he died, but it's also one of the few remaining bars on Capitol Hill that remains from the grunge era.

Cobain Apartment, 114 Pear St. NE, Olympia, WA — Everyone knows that Cobain lived in Aberdeen and Seattle, but in between, he rented an apartment in downtown Olympia between 1989 and 1991. Cobain apparently wrote most of Nirvana's biggest hits at this address — including "Smells Like Teen Spirit," the title of which came from something that Bikini Kill lead singer Kathleen Hanna wrote on the wall of the apartment.

Marco Polo Motel, 4114 Aurora North, Seattle, WA — This is apparently the place where Cobain would buy — and use — heroin. This stretch of Aurora Avenue is increasingly being swallowed up by chic, expensive Seattle, but in the early 1990s, this spot was considered highly sketchy.

Kurt Cobain Landing, E 2nd St, Aberdeen, WA — Finally, to fully understand Kurt Cobain, you need to visit his hometown. The city (motto: "Welcome to Aberdeen, Come As You Are") built this park in honor of its most famous son along the muddy banks of the Wishkah River.

Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts.