A very strange film that's sadly not that good. Not to mention an odd choice for French director Henri-Georges Couzot who excelled at thrillers. I bumped it up to 3 stars because it was so unusual and also for the abrupt but interesting shift near the end. Surprisingly, the film won the Golden Lion at the Venice Film Festival in 1949.

Clouzot adapted the controversial 18th-century novel by Abbe Prevost, "Manon Lescaut" (today best known for its opera incarnations) and updated it to post-WWII France. Manon is literally a "bad woman" who craves riches and uses her sexuality to get it. An ex-soldier comes under her spell and they have a troubled relationship. They can't quit each other but she…

“Manon” is a genre shapeshifter of the special kind. It’s an adaptation of a 1731 novel whose story Clouzot transferred to post-war France and thus created a peculiar mixture of melodrama, film noir, tragedy and fantasy. It tells the story of the doomed love between two wildly different individuals that are fatalistically drawn to each other. Clouzot is often dubbed “the French Alfred Hitchcock” due to his suspense films from the 50s (namely The Wages of Fear and Diabolique), but I think with “Manon”, this was the closest he ever got to make a Hitchcock film, for no other reason than the melodrama. But in the end, it turns into a true Clouzot film: bleak and horrifying.

The flashback scenes…

Skates a little too close to problematic to be an un-alloyed enjoyable watch (but then again, what Clouzot joint isn't?), but is yet another tally in the pet themes of the director.

A lot of his buttoned-up and repressed male characters are simultaneously spellbound and disgusted by the "good-time girl" archetype, something that is increasingly clear was an issue Clouzot had himself (lots of tempestuous relationships with outgoing ladies, including Suzy Delair who ended up playing one in Quai de Orfevres). It's undoubtedly one of the things that continues to draw me to his films as a repressed and buttoned-up person myself, as I often see my (younger) self in his rigid, tortured protagonists (I don't think I've ever felt…

Even after listening to director, Clouzot talking about the making of this film, it is difficult to understand quite why he made it. Loosely based upon an 18th century tale this has been changed around to fit a 2nd World War situation and must have something to do with the virtual ban he had after the accusations following the release of his brilliant Le Corbeau. In any event, this is a mess and for a man of intellect and literary allusions, a serious misjudgment. Even the structure with the constant flashbacks is unhelpful but the central tale of the young girl out for money and fun and men, leaves the central male and intended saviour looking more like a misguided…