Acronis, a global leader in cyber protection, announced today key milestones and momentum from the Acronis Cyber Foundation in 2020. The Acronis Cyber Foundation builds schools, computer classrooms, offers IT and computer literacy programs, and creates and donates books about technologies in sports and quantum technologies to children in underserved countries across the globe.

In 2018 to mark Acronis' 15th anniversary, the Acronis Cyber Foundation was founded. The Acronis Cyber Foundation has constructed and opened schools in countries including Laos, Guatemala, Peru and Lebanon. As the COVID-19 pandemic raged and other emergencies flared, with its partners, the Acronis Cyber Foundation stood strong to create, spread and protect knowledge in the communities it supports.

To close out 2020, the Acronis Cyber Foundation was able to rebuild a run-down school in Madagascar that now accommodates up to 425 students. The school also received new plumbing, including new toilets and a handwashing station. Students at this school have already taken their exams scoring an average of 94%, significantly higher than the national average.

"The new school building in Madagascar is large enough to bring high school to this area and allow students to attend full-time classes. This wasn't possible before, and because the school is centrally located, kids can enjoy a hot lunch at home," said Michelle M. Rahm, Founding President of GemsOfMadagascar, Acronis' NGO partner on the ground who helped to implement the project. "Our in-country project manager continually monitored the construction process with Acronis and managed expenses. He will continue to oversee the school complex for years to come."

During 2020, the Acronis Cyber Foundation also completed the following milestones:

Acronis opened three new schools in Nicaragua, Nepal and Madagascar;

Acronis helped over 1,725 children from 853 families in over five countries from our school communities by distributing emergency food packages and supplying hygiene kits with information on handwashing and sanitation; and

Acronis Cyber Foundation finalized the plans of opening two computer classrooms to connect to remote schooling during the pandemic, with classrooms in Tanzania and Nepal opening in the beginning of 2021.

Four new schools and more computer classrooms in 2021

In 2021, the Acronis Cyber Foundation is planning to build four more schools and implement computer classrooms in all current schools. Acronis plans to open a school in the Dominican Republic in February, Namibia in April, South Africa in July, and Malawi in December of 2021.

Acronis has robust plans to execute on these new schools by updating and creating the educational infrastructure to give the students better learning environments. The Acronis Cyber Foundation will also provide new educational opportunities for the students, such as computer literacy courses, to ensure school systems and communities are connected with one another to share their ideas.

Acronis Cyber Foundation is partnering with Entrepreneurs for Knowledge to find sustainable school projects in different countries and ensure its successful implementation. Acronis is proud to provide support to these communities around the world as we enter our third year of work. To learn more about the Acronis Cyber Foundation, please visit www.acronis.org.

"I have been an active volunteer member of the Acronis Cyber Foundation for over the past two years. Being able to open our school in Senegal, before the pandemic, was a life changing experience that never would have been possible without Acronis," said Melinda MacPhee, a finance accounting manager at Acronis. "Seeing the success of the Foundation and the happiness that we have provided to children's lives is life changing. It is proof that technology is in our lives to connect us and ensure these children receive the best education possible."