Acronis, a global leader in cyber protection, will commemorate its 20th anniversary this year while hosting the Acronis #CyberFit Summit 2023 (October 16–18) at Fontainbleau Miami Beach luxury resort in Miami, Florida, United States.

The flagship and keenly-awaited annual event of Acronis, the three-day event is expected to draw 1,000+ participants from the global MSP, hosting and IT sectors who will congregate in-person and online, to learn about cutting-edge solutions to meet the challenges of the ever-evolving cyberthreat landscape that is increasingly being spearheaded by threat actors deploying AI and ML.

Acronis #CyberFit Summit 2023 promises to be an action-packed B2B networking event, featuring keynote addresses by renowned personalities, world-class speakers, technical panel discussions, interactive workshops and seminars, multimedia news conferences and sessions, social gatherings, sports and entertainment.

The upcoming Miami event is also set to highlight the work of the Acronis Cyber Foundation, the company’s corporate social responsibility initiative that operates in 25 countries, in addition to featuring the ever-popular one-day Cyber Dragon Cup friendly soccer match.

$3.5bn valuation

Valued at more than $3.5 billion following $250 million in new funding from institutional investors backed by BlackRock in 2022, and from its global headquarters in Singapore and corporate headquarters in Schaffhausen, Switzerland, Acronis is targeting ambitious, but cautious growth through acquisitions and hiring — as new business opportunities abound as the global economy increasingly digitises and moves to cloud storage — but also opening up to substantial cyber attacks as a result.

According to estimates from Statista’s Cybersecurity Outlook, the global cost of cybercrime is expected to surge in the next five years, rising from $8.44 trillion in 2022 to $23.82 trillion by 2027.

All of Acronis’ cutting-edge cyber protection solutions are based on hybrid cloud architecture that offer customers the option of having their data stored locally, in the cloud, or, in hybrid mode involving Acronis’, partners’ or customer’s own data centres.

CEO’s 20th anniversary thoughts

In a blog post titled ‘Celebrating 20 years of innovation and industry leadership’ published this April, Patrick Pulvermueller, CEO of Acronis (https://www.linkedin.com/in/patrickpulvermueller) wrote: ‘Most technology companies have an average lifespan of seven years, and only about 3% survive past the 10-year mark. If you think about it, and the very rapid changes in the technology sector, it makes a lot of sense.

‘Technology changes fast and few companies can keep up or remain relevant with the speed of these changes. That’s why, as I reflect on Acronis hitting the 20-year mark [in 2023], I am filled with pride at what we have been able to accomplish for our partners, customers, employees and our community.

‘Since launching in Singapore as a backup solution in 2003, Acronis has expanded our service offerings immensely. As the CEO of Acronis since 2021, I couldn’t be more proud of our company’s trajectory and the growth it has achieved in the preceding decades.

‘This 20th-anniversary milestone is really only the beginning. It’s the start of a new era that will include 20 more years of innovation at Acronis. We will continue to focus on ensuring the success of our partners, regularly delivering innovative solutions that solve important problems they or their customers might face.’

Global footprint

Working with 20,000+ partners and protecting 760,000+ businesses in 150 countries, 2023 indeed marks 20 years of innovation at Acronis, and to celebrate the 20th anniversary the company has revitalised its popular Acronis #Cyberfit Academy initiative for its partners by launching 22 full certification courses and five recertification programmes.

Held at Fontainebleau Miami Beach, Acronis #CyberFit Summit 2022 (November 7–9) featured more than 100 world-class speakers, with keynote addresses by Patrick Pulvermueller, CEO of Acronis; Earvin ‘Magic’ Johnson, US basketball superstar and entrepreneur; Judge Louis Freeh, former FBI Director; and Serg Bell, Acronis Founder and Chief Research Officer of Acronis.

Acronis blocked 236,643 malware attacks during the three days of the Acronis #CyberFit Summit 2022, while the Acronis event team averaged 25,000 steps per person per day.

Acronis developed 60 new innovations in 2022, while also preventing a staggering 100,000,000 cyber-attacks in 2022.