Acronis Inc., a leading provider of disaster recovery and data protection solutions for physical, virtual, and cloud environments, today announced the appointment of Mr. Blaine Raddon as General Manager, Americas.

In this role, Mr. Raddon has overall leadership responsibility for Acronis’ sales and channel programs in Canada, the United States and throughout the emerging markets in Latin America.

“I am very pleased to have the opportunity to join the talented team at Acronis, especially at a time when the widespread adoption of virtualization is accelerating change in the backup and disaster recovery industry,” said Mr. Raddon.

“Acronis has a strong reputation for innovation in the data protection and virtualization markets, and I look forward to driving to its sales programs, impressive partner ecosystem and providing customers with the next generation solutions they need.”

Mr. Raddon joins Acronis from Juniper Networks Inc., where he served as Vice President, Channel Sales and General Business. In this role, Mr. Raddon leveraged his 25 years of enterprise sales leadership and channel management experience to build and launch an inside sales organization, which grew annually. Prior to Juniper Networks, Mr. Raddon held several key leadership positions during his 20-year career at IBM. While at IBM, Mr. Raddon was responsible for the company’s global relationship with Ingram Micro, one of IBM’s largest distribution partners.

“Blaine joins Acronis at an important time in Acronis’ history. We are well positioned for the next stage of the Company’s growth, and we are taking our proven enterprise-class technology into larger accounts,” said Laurent Dedenis, president & general manager, sales & marketing, Acronis.

“Blaine will be an integral component of the long term plan to strengthen existing enterprise partnerships and to develop new opportunities to accelerate our reach to these customers. His solid enterprise, sales and channel background from Juniper Networks and IBM will bring a new focus to the sales strategy across the region.”

About Acronis

Acronis is a leading provider of easy-to-use disaster recovery and data protection solutions for physical, virtual and cloud environments. Its patented disk imaging technology enables corporations, SMBs and consumers to protect their digital assets. With Acronis’ disaster recovery, deployment and migration software, users protect their digital information, maintain business continuity and reduce downtime.

Acronis software is sold in more than 90 countries and available in up to 14 languages. For additional information, please visit www.acronis.com. Follow Acronis on Twitter: http://twitter.com/acronis