Birth Name: Alyson Renae Michalka

Birth Place: Torrance, California

Date of Birth: March 25, 1989

Height: 5’8″

Mother: Carrie Michalka

Father: Mark Michalka

Sibling: AJ Michalka

Spouse: Stephen Ringer

Years Active: 2004–Present

Occupation: Actress, Singer, Musician, Songwriter

Instruments: Vocals, Guitar, Piano/Keys

Aly Michalka first began her acting career in 2004 with the Disney Channel Series Phil of the Future in which she played Keeley Teslow. In the following year, Alyson along with her sister Amanda Joy, formed the band Aly & AJ and released their debut album Into the Rush. Aly was also cast as the female lead in the Disney Channel Original movie Now You See It… that same year. In early 2006 Aly co-starred in the Disney Channel Original movie Cow Belles with her sister AJ and Phil of the Future went into it’s 2nd and final season. In 2007, Aly & AJ went onto release their sophomore album Insomniatic and co-star in the MTV movie Super Sweet 16: The Movie. In 2009 Alyson co-stared in the film Bandslam.

In 2010, Aly landed the lead role of Mari Perkins in the CW series Hellcats. Also in 2010 Aly played the supporting role of Rhiannon in the hit film Easy A. The following year she had a supporting role in the film The Roommate. Aly then went on to having guest spots on CSI: NY & Breaking In. In 2013, Aly had supporting roles in the films Crazy Kind of Love and Grown Ups 2. Aly then went onto landing the lead in the indie film Sequoia, a supporting role in the unreleased film Killing Winston Jones, and had a guest arc on Two and a Half Men and a guest spot on Anger Management.

In 2015 Aly and AJ starred in and produced their own film titled Weepah Way for Now. In the same year, Aly was cast as Peyton Charles in the CW’s iZombie (which ran until 2019). Aly went on to having a guest role on Motive in 2016. In 2017, Aly co-starred in the indie film The Lears, guest starred on MacGyver and had a supporting role in the Youtube Red show Ryan Hansen Solves Crimes on Television. Aly & AJ also re-emerged into the music industry and released the 4 song EP Ten Years. In 2019, Aly & AJ followed up Ten Years with the release of the 5 song EP Sanctuary.