Sixty-two years ago last month, the United States dropped an atomic bomb on Hiroshima. Six days later Japan tested its own nuclear device, according to a documentary aired on the History International channel entitled “Japan’s Atomic Bomb.”

The documentary reports that Yoshio Nishina, a noted Japanese physicist, was once a student of Niels Bohr, the famed Danish nuclear scientist who became a critical member of the U.S. team that worked on the Manhattan Project and produced our nation’s first atomic bomb. Just prior to Japan’s attack on Pearl Harbor, commanders gave permission for a Japanese Army team to develop nuclear weapons. Dr. Nishina became the head of the team that worked on developing them in Tokyo.

This plan was not uncovered until years after the Japanese surrendered. All documents related to it were thought to have been destroyed, although some of them mysteriously survived. They ended up in the hands of a young Japanese scientist by the name of Dr. Karota. In 1949, he was given a special visa — similar to those issued to a few German rocket scientists — and was brought to the United States and became a professor of engineering at the University of Arkansas.

While teaching there, he showed a number of his students the purloined documents that describe Japan’s nuclear program including schematics of equipment used to process uranium. Two other Japanese scientists who also came the United States after the war confirmed the existence of the highly classified program.

One problem faced by the Japanese was obtaining enough uranium to process into weapons-grade material. Japan has virtually no natural source of the metal, and teams were sent to Korea, Manchuria and Malaysia to find one. Meanwhile, the United States was frantically developing its own nuclear weapons under the Manhattan Project. Employing more than 130,000 people, spending $30 billion, and after four years of hard work, the effort was ultimately successful. The Japanese Army’s nuclear program came to an abrupt end when the United States. engaged in relentless firebombing raids throughout Japan. One of those raids completely destroyed the facilities at the University of Tokyo, where the nuclear program was housed.

The threat of Japan being able to produce an atomic bomb was thought to have ended, but that was not the case. Unknown to nearly everyone, Japan had a separate nuclear program under the control of the Japanese Navy. This program was not housed on the mainland but rather in northern Korea.

Germany was also working on developing nuclear weapons but never achieved success. The Japanese were aware of those efforts and attempted to mask their knowledge of it. Japan and Germany had a rather tenuous relationship throughout the war, although they occasionally acted as allies. The Japanese asked if they could purchase uranium oxide from them, and a deal was made. The problem was finding a way to get 1,000 pounds of it out of the country. The only practical means was by submarine and in March 1945, a German U-boat left Kiel headed for Japan.

Breaking a Japanese code, the United States became aware of this sub and its cargo. Meanwhile, Hitler was surrounded in Berlin and committed suicide. After his death, Germany’s high command issued orders that all its armies and ships should immediately surrender to Allied forces. The sub carrying the uranium oxide was seized and taken to Portsmouth, New Hampshire. Two months later, the United States successfully tested its first nuclear weapon in New Mexico. We dropped two similar bombs on the Japanese mainland, the first on Aug. 6, 1945. and the Japanese surrendered eight days later.

Shortly after that, David Snell, a journalist working for the U.S. Army, interviewed a Japanese officer who claims he was an eyewitness to the first test of Japan’s nuclear weapon. He says it happened on Aug. 12 and claims the device was aboard a ship off the coast of Korea in the Sea of Japan. He and 20 other men wore welder’s glasses and witnessed the explosion. Snell’s story was widely published by the United Press under the headline: “Successful Jap atomic bomb test reported.” For whatever reason, the story failed to gain much interest. U.S. intelligence specialists entirely reject the story.

We may never know the truth, although the documentary raises many intriguing questions and is well worth watching while one ponders the most obvious concern.