Husband and wife MPs Alan and Ann Keen now live permanently at a £750,000 Westminster apartment on which they have claimed up to £40,000 a year in “second homes” expenses.

Their “main residence” 10 miles away in Brentford, west London, has been left empty and neglected following a dispute with builders.

The local authority has even warned it may seize the property to house council tenants.

The Keens’ arrangement appears to breach Commons rules that require MPs to designate their main home as the one where they spend the most nights, making their Westminster flat ineligible or expenses.

Details of their expenses for the past year will not be published until the autumn but in the previous four years they claimed £137,000 on the flat.

Mr and Mrs Keen were not available for comment last night, but sources claimed the Commons fees office had approved the arrangement because of “exceptional circumstances”.

The Keens’ luxury apartment by the River Thames is part of a complex which boasts its own swimming pool, hot tub, gym and concierge service.

Ten miles away their “main residence” in Brentford has fallen into disrepair with windows at the back boarded up and building materials filling the garden and hallway.

A tarpaulin covers a missing window in a new loft conversion while the front garden is overgrown with weeds and strewn with beer cans.

Hounslow Council, which has a duty to monitor renovation work on any property it believes has been unoccupied for six months, has written to the Keens warning them their home could be used for social housing if it remains abandoned.

Keith Dickens, its empty property officer, said: “We have written to them asking when they are intending to bring it back into use. They have to give us a timeframe.”

Neighbours claim the Keens moved out of the property a year ago and have not lived there since.

Duncan Davidson, a 55-year-old telecoms engineer, said: “We occasionally see Alan but I haven’t seen Ann here for ages.

“At the moment the house is uninhabitable. They started refurbishing the place last year and moved out but work has been stopped for a few months.

“I have lived here for 14 years and in all that time I must have seen them no more than half a dozen times.” Another neighbour, Phil Holmes, said there was a lot of anger among constituents towards the Keens.

“I have to travel to London everyday, like most people. It’s only two minutes to Brentford station then half an hour to Waterloo. I don’t know why they can’t do that.”

Andrew Dakers, Liberal Democrat parliamentary candidate for Brentford and Isleworth, called on the Keens to clarify whether they have claimed second homes expenses since moving into their Westminster flat on a permanent basis. If they are found to be in breach of Commons rules they could be forced to repay thousands of pounds.

Mr Dakers said: “It is time Mr and Mrs Keen came clean.

“This is one case when the MPs should have flipped their homes so the London flat became their main residence.” Mr Keen represent s Feltham and Heston and his wife, a health minister, represents the neighbouring constituency of Brentford and Isleworth.

Among other items claimed for by the Keens were regular cleaning bills of £55 a week and the £50 cost of reconfiguring the sound on their Bose home cinema system.

Mr Keen also claimed back the £20 he paid to have 10 shirts ironed.

Last month Commons rules were changed to ban outer London MPs like the Keens from claiming second homes expenses in the future following a public outcry.