Parliament's standards watchdog is to investigate two Labour MPs who have been accused of misusing the Commons second home allowance, it emerged today.

Ann Keen, a health minister, and her husband, Alan, have between them claimed more than £130,000 over four years to fund a flat in Westminster, even though their main home, in the constituency of Brentford and Isleworth, is just nine miles away.

Under parliamentary rules, MPs are meant to nominate their main home as the one at which they spend most nights.

But the Keens have been renovating their main home and it has not been lived in for up to a year.

Ann Keen is the MP for Brentford and Isleworth, and her husband is the MP for neighbouring Feltham and Heston.

A spokeswoman for John Lyon, the parliamentary commissioner for standards, today confirmed that an investigation into the couple's claims had been launched.

"The commissioner has received a complaint, and agreed to investigate it," she said.

The Keens have said they have not been living in the Brentford house because of the renovation work.

But they faced embarrassment last month when it emerged that Hounslow council had written to them threatening to seize the property as an "abandoned dwelling" if they did not explain when it was going to be brought back into occupation.

There have been reports that the builders left the property eight months ago.

After the Hounslow council letter was reported in the press, squatters moved into the property and several comedians, including the leftwing activist Mark Thomas, have staged gigs there.

In a letter sent to neighbours, the Keens said they felt "distressed" and "violated" by the occupation of their house and also apologised for the "disruption" the squatters were causing.

A legal bid by the couple to evict their unwanted tenants is reportedly being heard in court today.

"Like many others who have had alterations and builders in their home, we too have experienced the nightmare side of it," they said in a statement.

"We had no choice but to halt work on our home because we became very concerned about the quality and standard."