ACTION | ABSTRACTION REDEFINED

Action/Abstraction Redefined features paintings, sculptures, ceramics, and works on paper from MoCNA’s permanent collection created in the 1960s and 1970s. The artists in this exhibition challenged stereotypical expectations of Native American art by experimenting with American modern art movements such as Abstract Expressionism, Color Field and Hard-edge Painting combined with art influences from their own cultural heritage. Some design elements, color choices, and patterns in the works are abstract references to Native design conventions found in textiles, pottery, or hide paintings. Like all artists, those featured in this exhibition were working from their own individual experiences.

Exhibition Schedule

Cahoon Museum of American Art, MA: March 15–June 12, 2022

Colorado Springs Fine Arts Center, CO: July 29, 2022–January 7, 2023

Westmoreland Museum of American Art, PA: February 26–May 28, 2023

Saint Louis Art Museum, MO: June 24–September 4, 2023

Schingoethe Center, Aurora University, IL: October 2, 2023–January 7, 2024

Arkansas Museum of Fine Arts, AR: February 16–May 12, 2024

ACTION | ABSTRACTION REDEFINED is generously supported through Art Bridges

Contact

To inquire further about the availability of traveling exhibitions, contact IAIA Museum of Contemporary Native Arts (MoCNA) Chief Curator Manuela Well-Off-Man at manuela.well-off-man@iaia.edu.

Exposure: Native Art and Political Ecology

Exposure: Native Art and Political Ecology documents international Indigenous artists’ responses to the impacts of nuclear testing, nuclear accidents, and uranium mining on Native peoples and the environment. The traveling exhibition and catalog give artists a voice to address the long-term effects of these man-made disasters on Indigenous communities in the United States and around the world. Indigenous artists from Australia, Canada, Greenland, Japan, Pacific Islands, and the United States utilize local and tribal knowledge, as well as Indigenous and contemporary art forms as visual strategies for their thought-provoking artworks.

Exposure: Native Art and Political Ecology is co-curated by iBiennale Director Dr. Kóan Jeff Baysa; Nuuk Art Museum Director Nivi Christensen (Inuit); Hokkaido Museum of Modern Art Chief Curator Satomi Igarashi; Art Gallery of New South Wales Assistant Curator of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Art Erin Vink (Ngiyampaa), independent curator Tania Willard (Secwepemc Nation), and MoCNA Chief Curator Manuela Well-Off-Man.

The hardcover, fully illustrated catalog features artist statements, interviews and essays by co-curators, art historians, writers, scientists, and activists who examine art practices and artists’ concerns more in depth. Exposure: Native Art and Political Ecology is supported by the Ford Foundation and the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts.

Exhibition Schedule

IAIA Museum of Contemporary Native Arts: Aug.20 – July 10, 2022

Marshall M. Fredericks Sculpture Museum, Saginaw, MI: Sept.10 – December 10, 2022

Armory Center for the Arts, Pasadena, CA: January 27–June 11, 2023

El Paso Museum of Art, TX: July 28 – Nov.12, 2023

Exposure: Native Art and Political Ecology is generously supported through the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts, the Ford Foundation, and by Air Tahiti Nui.

Contact

To inquire further about the availability of traveling exhibitions, contact IAIA Museum of Contemporary Native Arts (MoCNA) Chief Curator Manuela Well-Off-Man at manuela.well-off-man@iaia.edu.