2012 Women's Institute for Summer Enrichment

PROGRAM OVERVIEW

WISE is a one-week residential summer program at a TRUST campus that brings together graduate students, post-doctoral fellows, and professors from all disciplines that are interested in Ubiquitous Secure Technology and the social, political, and economical ramifications that are associated with this technology. Thought leaders from academia, industry, and government come to WISE to teach power courses in several disciplines, including computer science, engineering, economics, law, and public policy. The one-week program includes rigorous classes and allows participants opportunities for career development and to network with their peers.

The 2012 WISE Institute was held June 19-22, 2012 on the University of California, Berkeley campus. A copy of the agenda can be found here.

SPEAKERS 2012

Jean Camp

Indiana University

Jean Camp is an Associate Professor at the School of Informatics, Adjunct Professor of Telecommunications, and an Adjunct Professor of Computer Science at Indiana University. Professor Camp's core interest is technical trust mechanisms in economic and social context. It was this interest that led Prof. Camp from graduate electrical engineering research in North Carolina to the Department of Engineering and Public Policy at Carnegie Mellon, and it remained her core interest as a Senior Member of the Technical Staff at Sandia National Laboratories. At Sandia National Laboratories her work focused on computer security. She left Sandia National Laboratories for eight years at Harvard's Kennedy School. Now as a tenured Professor at Indiana Unviersity's School of Informatics her research addresses security in society.

Enabling System Trust for Users

Edward Felten

Federal Trade Commission

Edward W. Felten is the first Chief Technologist at the Federal Trade Commission. He is on leave from Princeton University, where he is a Professor of Computer Science and Public Affairs and the founding Director of Princeton's Center for Information Technology Policy. His research interests include computer security and privacy, especially relating to media and consumer products; and technology law and policy. He has published about eighty papers in the research literature, and two books. His research on topics such as web security, copyright and copy protection, and electronic voting has been covered extensively in the popular press. His weblog, at freedom-to-tinker.com, is widely read for its commentary on technology, law, and policy. He is a Fellow of the ACM, and was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He has testified before the House and Senate committee hearings on privacy, electronic voting, and digital television. In 2004, Scientific American magazine named him to its list of fifty worldwide science and technology leaders.

Privacy and Integrity in the Untrusted Cloud

Jennifer King

University of California, Berkeley

Jennifer King is a Ph.D candidate in Information Science at UC Berkeley’s School of Information, where she is advised by Professor Deirdre Mulligan. Ms. King’s work uses human-computer interaction methods to examine the privacy “gap” between people’s expectations and how technological systems actually function. Her publications include privacy focused investigations into mobile systems, online social networks, radio-frequency identification [RFID], and digital video surveillance. Ms. King holds a professional master’s degree in information management and systems also from Berkeley’s i-School. Prior to her research career, Ms. King worked in security and product management for several Internet companies, most recently Yahoo!.

Gregorij Kurillo

University of California, Berkeley

Gregorij Kurillo received B.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees from Faculty of Electrical Engineering, University of Ljubljana, Slovenia, in 2001 and 2006, respectively. He has received the highest national award for his undergraduate thesis work. He was a Research Assistant with the Laboratory of Robotics and Biomedical Engineering at the same institution from 2002 to 2006. His research work was focused on the application of principles of robotic grasping to human grasping for the assessment and rehabilitation of hand function in virtual environments. He has also participated in two European Union funded projects, iMatch and Alladin, aimed at sensor-based rehabilitation and assistive technology. Dr. Kurillo was a Postdoctoral Researcher at University of California, Berkeley, from 2006-2009. Since 2009 he has been assigned to Research Engineer position to manage work on the Teleimmersion project at UC Berkeley.

Privacy and Security Considerations in Real-Time Remote Healthcare Delivery

Sheila O'Rourke

University of California, Berkeley

Sheila O’Rourke is the Director of Faculty and Postdoctoral Diversity Initiatives at UC Berkeley. She was appointed Assistant Provost for Academic Affairs at University of California at Berkeley in 2008. Her responsibilities include policies, practices and programs enhancing faculty recruitment and advancement with an emphasis on equity and diversity. She also is the director of the University of California (UC) President’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program, a faculty pipeline program designed to enhance the diversity of the academic community at the University of California. She teaches a course on civil rights law in higher education in the freshman seminar program at the UC Berkeley Graduate School of Education. She previously worked at the University of California Office of the President as Assistant Vice Provost for Equity and Diversity, where she served since 1999. Prior to joining the UC Office of the President, she was an Assistant Vice Provost at UC Berkeley, a civil rights attorney for the U.S. Department of Education Office for Civil Rights and a teaching fellow at Stanford Law School. She has a J.D. from Boalt Law School and an A.B. from Stanford University.

Equity and Diversity in Higher Education

Daniele Perito

University of California, Berkeley

Daniele Perito is a post-doctoral scholar at INRIA in France, where he is supervised by Prof Claude Castelluccia. His research interests span from machine learning and security, to secure embedded systems design. During his PhD he interned at UC Irvine, Stanford and UC Berkeley. Daniele received his master degree in computer science from the University of Rome, La Sapienza.

On the Feasibility of Side-Channel Attacks with Brain-Computer Interfaces

Franzi Roesner

University of Washington

Franzi Roesner is a fourth-year CSE Ph.D. student at the University of Washington. Her research interests include security, privacy, and systems. Her advisor is Tadayoshi Kohno, and she has also collaborated with David Wetherall, James Fogarty, as well as Helen Wang and others at Microsoft Research. She is a member of the UW CSE Security and Privacy Research Lab. She has completed internships at Google (2012), Microsoft Research (2010), and Amazon.com (2008 and 2009). She received her B.S. in Computer Sciences at the University of Texas at Austin in May 2008, and then spent a year teaching English at a high school in Mulhouse, France. She received her M.S. in Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Washington in June 2011.

Wendy Seltzer

World Wide Web Consortium

Wendy Seltzer is Policy Counsel to the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) and a Fellow with Yale Law School's Information Society Project, researching openness in intellectual property, innovation, privacy, and free expression online. As a Fellow with Harvard's Berkman Center for Internet & Society, Wendy founded and leads the Chilling Effects Clearinghouse, helping Internet users to understand their rights in response to cease-and-desist threats. She serves on the Board of Directors of The Tor Project, promoting privacy and anonymity research, education, and technology; and the World Wide Web Foundation, U.S., dedicated to advancing the web and empowering people by improving Web science, standards, and generative accessibility of Web. She seeks to improve technology policy in support of user-driven innovation and communication.

Feedback: Making Privacy Visible

Xiao Su

San Jose State University

Dr. Su joined the Computer Engineering Department in Fall 2002. Prior to her appointment with SJSU, she worked in the content networking division in Inktomi Corporation. She received her Ph.D. from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. In the Computer Engineering department, Dr. Su regularly teaches classes in networking and security, which align very well with her research interests. She enjoys watching her students develop and mature through the degree programs, and is very proud of being part of their academic success and career advancement. At San Jose State University, Dr. Su received the Applied Materials Faculty Award for Excellence in Teaching in 2012, and the College of Engineering Faculty Award for Excellence in Scholarship in 2010.

First Experiences with DETER Testbed