Their 16-year marriage recently was rumoured to be on the rocks.

But Barbra Streisand has blasted the reports as 'crap.'

'They go into the supermarket, they read this crap — excuse me, but it's absurd,' the 72-year-old singer told Gayle King during an interview in New York City on Wednesday. 'We've been together 18 years.'

Scroll down for video

The star said she doesn't pay attention to the reports that she and the 74-year-old actor are headed for a $390 million divorce because of her demanding work schedule.

'I'm not even aware of these. Nobody shows me, and I don't go to the supermarkets much, though I love to go to supermarkets,' she said, according to Page Six.

Although it was at a grocery store where she first learnt about the divorce rumours.

'I said, "I need ice cream" ...So I'm in the supermarket and we're holding hands, and a guy behind us says, "Oh, you're back together?" And I said, "When were we apart?" she said.

On the same day, Barbara opened up about how she first met James, at a dinner party - and caught his attention with an insult.

The performer revealed on Wednesday's episode of The Meredith Vieira Show that she didn't like his hair.

She dropped by the show to chat about the moment James fell for her, the truth about their relationship now, and what he does that really bugs her.

'Now I love this story because I relate to this. You met at a dinner party,' Meredith said. 'You apparently said something about his hair, you didn't like his hair and he knew in that moment that you were the one, he fell in love with you in that moment.'

Barbra explained that her direct nature captured the actor's attention, saying, 'Yeah because I told him the truth.'

'Most people don't tell the truth, they are afraid of the truth, but I like the truth,' she said. 'You don't have to think about what you said before, it's just the truth.'

However, while James knew immediately that Barbra was the one for him, it took her a little longer to be sure.

She said, 'It took me a couple of months.' Then she went on to explain to Meredith that it just happened naturally, and she doesn't remember a particular moment.

The legendary performer was happy to share, however, that the two were still going strong after 16 years of marriage.

Meredith asked if the duo was still holding hands after all those years, and Barbra was quick to reply, 'Yes we are. No matter what you read in those silly things.'

She also shared a funny story about a fan who had thought her relationship had been in jeopardy because of tabloid stories.

'Oh my God we were in supermarket a few week ago, actually and we were holding hands as a matter of fact, and a guy behind us said, 'I'm so glad to see you back together,'' Barbra shared.

'I said, "Really? When did we go apart?" Because he must have read those supermarket tabloids,' she said of the encounter.

After pointing out their admirable romance, Meredith asked Barbra what about her husband gets on her nerves.

'Something? How many of you are married? C'mon. I'm sure I get on his nerves too,' she said, before adding a story about when she and James first started dating.

'Oh I don't know, he charmed me when he was courting me,' Barbra said. 'He told me he could cook and since I can't I thought, wow, this is a catch.