The infamous Gambino Crime Family wreaked havoc in the city of New York during the 20th century. They were an Italian-American Mafia crime family and one of the “Five Families” that ruled over the city’s crime ring with an iron fist. Along with racketeering, gambling, and loansharking, the family made millions of dollars by carrying out extortion, money laundering, and fraud. They furthermore dealt drugs and were also involved in prostitution, hijacking, and fencing.

Over the last 27 years, the feds have circled this family. Over time, the Gambino Crime Family and other New York families kept losing their power. Even though the family does exist in the current day and age, their era of criminal glory is left behind in the past.

Who runs the Gambino Crime Family now?

According to Distractify, the last active Gotti, i.e. Peter Gotti, passed away in prison. However, this did not mark the end of the Gambino Crime Family.

After the Gotti era came to an end, Domenico Cefalù took charge of the family in the year 2011. Cefalù had been imprisoned prior to the leadership position. He was serving time for racketeering and extortion. Cefalù alongside his underboss, Frank Cali, began handling business with efficiency until the former decided to step down in 2015.

After Cefalù left the position, it was taken over by Frank Cali. He too was operating smoothly, however, in 2019, he was killed outside his home in Staten Island. Even though it has not been confirmed, some sources said that the current head of the Gambino Crime Family is Lorenzo Mannino. Mannino has been a member of the infamous family for a long-long time.

Gambino Crime Family’s history explored

According to the Crime Museum, the Gambino Crime Family was founded in the early 1900s. Its first leader was Salvatore D’Aquila. After his murder in 1928, the leadership position went to Frank Scalise. Unfortunately, his power lasted for only three years. However, the next leader, Vincent Mangano, reigned supreme for almost two decades.

Due to his immense influence and criminal mind, the family kept growing stronger and stronger. In the 1950s, the Gambino Crime Family became one of the world’s biggest criminal organizations. In the year 1951, Albert Anastasia became its new leader. Anastasia was best known for being the mastermind behind Murder Incorporated, a sister organization that carried out Mob-related assassinations. Not only was he considered a dangerous individual, but his own people believed he was completely insane. Eventually, his own people plotted against him and killed him in 1957. After Anastasia’s death, Carlo Gambino became its new leader.

Under Carlo Gambino’s leadership, the Gambino Crime Family reached new heights of power and infamy. He was so efficient that no matter how hard officials tried, they could never nab him. After his death in 1976, Paul Castellano took over the family. However, several members of the organization were not pleased with the way the new leader operated.

In 1985, John Gotti ordered the murder of Castellano. After his passing, John Gotti led the family till his arrest in 1992. Officials gave him a life sentence and he died on June 10, 2002, in the United States Medical Center for Federal Prisoners in Springfield, Missouri. He suffered from throat cancer and was aged 62 at the time of his passing. Gotti apparently used to earn between $5-$20 million a year during the height of his power.