LOS ANGELES (CBS/AP) — Actress Elizabeth Taylor has died at the age of 79. She had recently been hospitalized at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, where was being treated for symptoms of congestive heart failure.

Taylor was surrounded by her children: Michael Wilding, Christopher Wilding, Liza Todd, and Maria Burton, according to her publicist Sally Morrison. In addition to her children, she is survived by 10 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.

"My Mother was an extraordinary woman who lived life to the fullest, with great passion, humor, and love. Though her loss is devastating to those of us who held her so close and so dear, we will always be inspired by her enduring contribution to our world," Michael Wilding said.

"Her remarkable body of work in film, her ongoing success as a businesswoman, and her brave and relentless advocacy in the fight against HIV/AIDS, all make us all incredibly proud of what she accomplished. We know, quite simply, that the world is a better place for Mom having lived in it. Her legacy will never fade, her spirit will always be with us, and her love will live forever in our hearts."

Taylor announced her congestive heart failure diagnosis in 2004.

The Oscar-winning actress recently received friends in her hospital room, where she also watched the Academy Awards to celebrate her birthday last month.

Film critic Leonard Maltin tells KNX 1070's Dick Helton and Vicky Moore that Taylor's personal life ultimately eclipsed her considerable talents as an actress.

A private family funeral will be held later this week. In lieu of flowers, Taylor's family asks that donations be made to the Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation. Personal messages can also be shared on a Facebook triubute page.

(TM and © Copyright 2011 CBS Local Media, a division of CBS Radio Inc. and its relevant subsidiaries. CBS RADIO and EYE Logo TM and Copyright 2011 CBS Broadcasting Inc. Used under license. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.)