If you’re a frequent traveller but a bad packer (it’s surprising how often these two things go hand in hand) you might find yourself googling to find the best packing cubes. If you have no idea what I’m talking about, a packing cube is essentially a fabric pouch, often with a mesh top, designed to organise your clothes within a suitcase or hand luggage.

Whether it’s big waterproof jackets for your next hiking adventure or gym leggings for a sporty getaway, everything can fit inside one of these handy contraptions. “Packing cubes allow you to separate your belongings into categories, making it easier to find items quickly and maintain order in your luggage,” says Alex Kallen, founder of travel blog Leap Local. “By compressing clothing and other soft items, packing cubes can also help maximise space in your suitcase or backpack.”

However tempting it may be to jump on Amazon and order the first ones that can be delivered in time for your holiday, the best packing cubes for travel actually vary a fair amount. Some are more technical, others compress, expand or have pockets for dirty laundry.

To help you out, I’ve tried and compared packing cubes from the biggest brands including Osprey and Antler. You can find my full reviews below, followed by advice from experts on whether to roll or fold, which brands are worth buying, and how to choose the best travel cube for you. If you’re in a rush, here’s a quick look at my top five:

Which are the best packing cubes in 2024? At a glance

Best overall - Antler Chelsea Packing Cubes

Best value packing cubes - Away The Insider Packing Cubes

Best packing cubes for backpacking - Osprey Ultralight Packing Cube Set

Best sustainable packing cube - Peak Design Packing Cube

Best compression packing cube - Gomatic Packing Cubes

How to choose the best packing cube for you

“Think about what sorts of trips you go on,” says Claire Robinson, founder of Weekend Candy, a travel site about the best weekend breaks in the UK. “If you do a mixture of long-haul and short breaks, then choosing a set of cubes that vary in size to give you flexibility makes sense. Waterproof cubes are a good option if you’re doing a more outdoorsy trip.”

Claire advises looking for packing cubes that can compress in size to save space – but first check how wide they open up, so you can fill them to capacity. “Handles are a good extra feature too, since you may run out of space and need to carry them.”

Why you can trust Telegraph Recommended

Our thorough, real-world tests will always help you find the best product at the best price. No manufacturer ever sees copy before publication and we do not accept payment in exchange for favourable reviews. Visit our Who We Are page to learn more.

How I tested the best packing cubes

The packing cubes below have undergone rigorous testing: they’ve come on weekends away in my suitcase to Edinburgh and Venice, they’ve been bundled into my rucksack for overnight stays at friends’ flats who live in different cities and even helped me move house.

I tried each over the course of two months, looking for whether they added weight to my packing, if they had a good range of sizes, how good compression and expandable features were and how strong, robust and malleable each was when fitting into a suitcase. Here is what I found, starting with my favourite:

Best packing cubes

1. Antler Chelsea Packing Cubes

£50 for four, Antler

Best packing cubes overall, 10/10

We like: the compression zip means you can pack smaller

We don’t like: the meshing snagged when I packed it to the brim

Set of four includes one large, one medium, two small

24.5 x 33 x 10cm (large) 33 x 17.5 x 10cm (medium) 17.5 x 16.5 x 10 cm (small)

Compression zip

Polyester

Antler’s packing cubes come in a handy set of four, one large, one medium and two small. Each zips more than three quarters of the way around the cube and has a compressive feature.

I really crammed my clothes into these travel cubes when I was moving house and I’m glad to report the zips are hardwearing. Slightly less impressive was that the mesh snagged under the stress - but I won’t hold it against Antler. If you saw how many t-shirts I tried to squeeze into a small cube, you wouldn’t either.

The compression zip was a useful feature but I found it only really worked if there was only a slim layer of clothes inside a packing cube. Otherwise, the compression zip was impossible to shut. It easily squashed a layer of pants and socks but had no chance against jumpers. That was a common theme among all the compression packing cubes I tried rather than a specific flaw with Antler’s packing cubes.

These were still my favourite because of their depth, strong sides which stood on their own while I packed clothes inside and perfect sizing for my cabin sized suitcase.

Set of four includes one small, one medium slim, one medium wide, one large slim

33 cm x 10.5 cm x 17.5 cm (large slim) 33 cm x 10.5 cm x 25.5 cm (medium wide) 25.5 cm x 10.5 cm x 11 cm (medium slim) 25.5 cm x 10.5 cm x 21 cm (small wide)

Nylon

Away is known for its quality but reasonably expensive luggage, so it may come as a surprise to see it labelled as our best value pick. But £35 for four packing cubes works out as £8.75 each and they also performed well in my testing.

Unlike lots of others I tried, the Away packing cubes are made from nylon rather than polyester. I found that gave them a little more stretch and flexibility. While they lacked any sort of compressing feature, they’re so lightweight and soft that once placed in a suitcase they easily squashed down to the desired size.

The one drawback to them being so soft and unstructured is that they’re slightly difficult to pack into because the sides don’t stay up by themselves. You find yourself having to hold a side up as you squeeze clothes against the walls.

However, that lack of rigidity also means you can pack these cubes even fuller and the nylon stretch means they can take it. These are my packing cubes of choice for throwing in a backpack.

Sold individually

Sizes available include 3l (25 cm x 13 cm x 10 cm), 6l (31 cm x 17 cm x 11 cm) and 10l (34 cm x 20 cm x 14 cm)

Dirty laundry pocket

Recycled polyester

The most technical packing cube on this list is the Patagonia Black Hole. As the epic name suggests, it fits more than you’d imagine. It’s a little like Doctor Who’s Tardis - humble looking on the outside with a wealth of space, compartments and tools on the inside.

Unzip the travel cube and you’ll see inside is split into two sections, each zipped up in a mesh compartment - a section each for clean and dirty laundry. I actually found it to be quite a good wash bag as well, and the handle on top can be carabiner clipped to the outside of a bag.

I do think £40 is a little expensive for a singular packing cube, but the material is strong and structured and the design well thought out. There’s no stretch because of the strong material outside, but the Black Hole is so big that I didn’t find that to be an issue.

Set of three includes one small, one medium and one large

23 cm x 14 cm x 8 cm (small) 23 cm x 22 cm x 8 cm (medium) 35 cm x 30 cm x 10 cm (large)

Recycled polyester

It should come as no surprise that Samsonite, possibly the best-known luggage brand there is, features on this list. The larger size in this packing cube set is the biggest I tried, perfect for rolling up thicker jumpers and pairs of jeans.

I found it too big for my small carry-on, so it’s definitely better suited to larger suitcases and someone who is a regular on long haul flights. Both the medium and smaller sizes are fine for fitting into smaller bags and suitcases, but if you’re paying £55 for a set you probably want to know you’ll get your money’s worth from all three.

There’s no compression feature but the Samsonite packing cubes are sturdy and made from recycled plastic bottles. Although I’m always keen to use sustainable materials, I sometimes find they’re of lesser quality. So it was a relief that these Samsonite packing cubes are still so strong.

Packing cubes FAQ

Are packing cubes worth it?

“Packing cubes are a practical investment for organised and efficient travel,” says travel writer Alex Kallen. “They are especially beneficial for those who frequently move between accommodations, as they minimise the need to unpack and repack your entire bag.”

While not a necessity by any means, I’ve noticed I find the whole packing process to be much less stressful with packing cubes. They’re especially great if you’re the type to live out of your suitcase on short trips rather than unpacking into wardrobes.

What is the best packing cube brand?

Antler was the best packing cube brand I found after weeks of testing. As a journalist on The Telegraph’s recommended channel, I always know I’ve found my favourite in a category when I subconsciously reach for it more times than any other. I just love the quality, compression zips and choice of sizes of the Antler Chelsea Packing Cubes.

That being said, it’s definitely a personal choice. “I think the best brand is actually the one that suits your trip type and budget,” says Claire Robinson, founder of Weekend Candy.

Is it better to roll clothes or use packing cubes?

“Rolling clothes always saves more space than folding,” Claire says. Rolling clothes almost acts like a vacuum pack, squeezing the air out of the gaps and compressing them into the smallest size possible. Rolling is also effective for reducing the wrinkles in clothes, although if that’s a recurring issue for you, take a look at our guide to the best clothes steamers.

View the latest Amazon deals