'Ship of Theseus' has been hailed for its brilliant portrayal of complex issues of identity, faith and death through the Theseus paradox.

"I am really very excited with this award. It is an invitation for future communication with the government institution. I am also happy for Nishtha Jain's 'Gulabi Gang' winning the best documentary, which we distributed," Gandhi told PTI.

'Bhaag Milkha Bhaag', a biopic on Milkha Singh, is directed by Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra and starred Farhan Akhtar in the lead role.

Hansal Mehta was named the best director for his biopic on slain lawyer-activist Shahid Azmi in 'Shahid' while its lead actor Rajkumar Rao shared the best actor trophy with Suraj Venjaramoodu for Malayalam film 'Perariyathavar'. Geetanjali Thapa was named the best actress for Hindi film 'Liar's Dice'.

Mehta paid tribute to his film's subject, Shahid Azmi, after the win.

"It is a wonderful feeling. It is a tribute to Shahid Azmi. It is just his karma which has worked for the film and for us. It's also a tribute to my team who stood by me for three and a half years while making this film," Mehta told PTI.

Reacting to the announcement, Rao said: "I am more than happy. It is the most important day of my life. Never expected this to happen. I am thankful to everyone actually Hansal Mehta, Shahid team and the audience. I am overwhelmed."

Saurabh Shukla was declared the best supporting actor for court-room drama 'Jolly LLB' which was also named the best Hindi film.

The best supporting actress award will be shared by Amruta Subhas and Aida El-Kashef for Astu (Marathi) and 'Ship of Theseus'.

Indira Gandhi Award for best debut film will go to director Nagraj Manjule for his critically acclaimed Marathi film 'Fandry'.

An 11-member jury, headed by noted director Saeed Akhtar Mirza announced the awards today which are likely to be given President Pranab Mukherjee on May 3 along with the Dada Saheb Phalke award which will go to lyricist-director Gulzar this year.

Nargis Dutt Award for best feature film on National Integration will be given to Balu Mahendra directed Tamil film 'Thalaimuraigal'.

Marathi film 'Tuhya Dharma Koncha' was declared the best film on social issues.

Hindi film 'Kaphal' was named the best children's film whereas Fandry's Somnath Avghade and Tamil film 'Thanga Meengal's Sadhana shared the best child artist award.

Bengali film 'Jaatishwar' won the best male playback singer award for the song 'E Tumi Kemon Tumi' by Rupankar while in the female category Bela Shende won for the song 'Khura Kura' from Marathi film 'Tuhya Dharma Koncha'.

Interestingly, both the original and adapted screenplay awards went to Kannada films. P Sheshadri won the award for his original screenplay in 'December I' while Panchakshari won the award for adapting 'Prakruti'.

The best dialogue award will go to Sumitra Bhave for Marathi film 'Astu'.

In the language category, 'Ajeyo' was named the best Asamese film, 'Bakita Byaktigato' (Bengali), 'December 1' (Kannada), 'Baga Beach' (Konkani), 'North 24 Kaadham' (Malayalam), 'Aajcha Diwas Majha' (Marathi), 'Thanga Meengal' (Tamil) and 'Na Bangaaru Talli' (Telugu) were other winners.

'Yellow' (Marathi) and 'Na Bangaaru Talli' were given special mention by the jury.

The other language winners were: 'The Coffin Maker' (English), 'RI' (Khasi), 'The Crossing Bridges' (Sherdukpen).

'Bhaag Milkha Bhaag' choreographer Ganesh Acharya won in the best choreography category.

In the best audiography category John Abraham-produced political thriller 'Madras Cafe' won the award for location Sound Recordist and Sound design while Malayalam film 'Swapaanam' won for re-recordist of the final mixed track.

Best editing went V J Sabu Joseph for the Tamil sports drama 'Vallinam' while best production design was won by 'Miss Lovely'.

In the best music direction category 'Jaatishwar' won for the song while Tamil film 'Na Bangaaru Talli' was named in the best background score. 'Jal' won for special effects.

The film 'Jaatishwar' also won in the make-up and costume design cagtegories.

The jury selected the winners in the best feature film category out of 310 films, an official said.