School Overview

School Membership(s)School Assoc.

Religious Affiliation

Grades Offered

Grades Prekindergarten-12

Learning Difference Programs

Yes

Learning Programs Supported

Resource Department

Year Founded

1990

School Calendar

Student Body

Total Students

475 students

Student Body Type

Co-ed

% Students of Color

12%

State avg.: 31%

Students by Grade

Academics and Faculty

Tuition and Acceptance Rate

Sports

Extracurriculars

Total ExtracurricularsTotal Extra-curric.

3 extracurriculars

ExtracurricularsExtra-curric.

Club or Organization:

Shooting Team

Arts and Music Programs:

Drama, instrumental lessons

School Notes

Our Mission: To assist parents and evangelical churches by providing a Biblically-based educational program that instills a whole-hearted love of the Lord Jesus Christ, develops Godly character, and emphasizes academic excellence.

Philosophy: Christian education is the process whereby the student is taught to learn to observe things from God's perspective and to conduct hislife in a manner which is consistent with God's revealed truth (Psalms 25:5; Proverbs 16:13, 23:23; John 1:14 & 17; 14:6; II Timothy 2:15). The School is committed to academic excellence in helping students to develop their abilities to learn and discover truth, which can only be properly understood in the context of God's Word and in the example of the Lord Jesus Christ.//We celebrate each student`s gifts: honors, Advanced Placement, and Duel Enrollment options (by 11th grade). Additional opportunities such as regional competitions for music and academics through Association of Christian Schools International.//Spiritual Growth: Biblical integration in all classes, Bible class, worship team, service outreach, missions, prayer buddies, and weekly chapels.// Extra -Curricular opportunities: We have a variety of athletic options: Soccer, Basketball, Cross-Country, and Volleyball. Additional academic options: Spanish (PreK-12), Lego Robotics, Journalism, Creative Writing, and Debate. We also focus on the arts through a music program, including a band, worship team, choir, private lessons (piano, guitar, and various other band instruments).

Frequently Asked Questions

How much does Blue Ridge Christian School cost?

Blue Ridge Christian School's tuition is approximately $12,360 for private students.

What schools are Blue Ridge Christian School often compared to?

Blue Ridge Christian Schoolis often viewed alongside schools like Cornerstone Christian School by visitors of our site.

What sports does Blue Ridge Christian School offer?

Blue Ridge Christian School offers 7 interscholastic sports: Basketball, Cross Country, Intramural Sports Only, Riflery, Soccer, Track and Field and Volleyball.

What is Blue Ridge Christian School's ranking?

Blue Ridge Christian School ranks among the top 20% of private schools in Virginia for: Largest student body.

When is the application deadline for Blue Ridge Christian School?

The application deadline for Blue Ridge Christian School is rolling (applications are reviewed as they are received year-round).

Email:

Name of parent:

Student first name:

Student last name:

Student date of birth:

Student is:

Male

Female

Currently in grade:

Seeking entry for grade:

Target start date:

Please briefly describe academic, athletic, and extracurricular interests of the student:

Home address:

City:

Country:

State:

Zip: (enter "N/A" if not applicable)

Phone:

Allow nearby private schools to send me information. Share your information with nearby schools on our site and let them send you brochures.

Save this data and create your user profile. Create your own user account so you don't have to re-type your user data each time you request information. You'll also be able to track your information requests, get reminded of application dates, and more!

Username:

Password: