Berkeley Unified is a great place to grow your education career. A vibrant, relatively small urban school district, we have a range of resources from the generous parcel tax courtesy of Berkeley voters to the many departments at UC Berkeley, all located in the temperate climes of the San Francisco Bay Area.

Teaching positions require a valid teaching credential from the state. If you have an out-of-state credential, we can give you information about the steps to take to get a valid California credential.

We accept applications for substitute teachers on EdJoin.org.

The Human Resources Department is located at 2020 Bonar St 2nd floor, Berkeley, CA. For questions, please phone (510) 644-6150.

To be eligible to apply for a substitute position, an applicant must have a valid emergency substitute teacher permit or valid California teaching credential. Applicants with a bachelor degree who have passed CBEST who do not possess a valid California teaching credential may apply for a substitute teacher permit. Candidates interested in obtaining an emergency teaching permit can find more information on www.ctc.ca.gov.

Please refer to the ED-JOIN Website for BUSD Teaching job listings.

Anti-Bullying: Board Policy | Administrative Regulation | Compliance

Suicide Prevention: Board Policy

Notification of Non-Discrimination Policy:

The Berkeley Unified School District is committed to providing equal opportunity for all individuals in district programs and activities. Accordingly, BUSD programs and activities shall be free from discrimination, harassment, intimidation and bullying based on actual or perceived ancestry, age, color, disability, gender, gender identity, gender expression; nationality, race or ethnicity, religion, sex, sexual orientation, or association with a person or group with one or more of these actual or perceived characteristics. The Board shall promote programs which ensure that discriminatory practices are eliminated in all district activities. (Board Policy 0410, Board Policy 1311, Board Policy 4030, Board Policy 5145.3, Board Policy 5145.7)

The Board also prohibits retaliation against any district employee or job applicant who complains, testifies or in any way participates in the district's complaint procedures instituted pursuant to this policy. (Board Policy 4030)

Complaint forms are available at school sites and on the district webpage at www.berkeleyschools.net/complaints.

For inquiries or concerns regarding BUSD nondiscrimination policy 5145.3 or the filing of discrimination complaints please contact:

Jasmina Viteskic, Title IX Coordinator/Compliance Officer

2020 Bonar Street Room 116, Berkeley, CA 94702

Phone: 510.486.9338 Email: nondiscrimination@berkeley.net

More information is available at www.berkeleyschools.net/non-discrimination/.