Vlastimir 'Djuza' Stojiljkovic was born in Razanj near Krusevac into a teacher's family. After graduating from Krusevac Grammar School he registered at the School of Mining in Belgrade, but after three semesters he entered Drama Academy in Belgrade and graduated from it in professor Mata Milosevic's class (1948-1952). His first stage appearance was as a schoolboy in "Krusevac County National Theatre", in 1946. After acting studies, in 1952 he becomes a member of Belgrade Drama Theatre in Belgrade where he worked until 1968 when he moved to Atelje 212 to perform for ten seasons.

In 1979 he returned to Belgrade Drama Theatre and stayed there until 1985 when he returned to Atelje 212 and remained until retirement in 1994. During his fifty-year long and fruitful career, Stojiljkovic realized more than 150 theater roles, such as Steven Kumalo in "Cry, Beloved Country" by Alan Paton, Dr Stockman in "Public Enemy" by Henrik Ibsen , Frulica in "We're Improvising Tonight" by Luigi Pirandello, Janko Savski in "The Collecting Point" by Dusan Kovacevic, Shylock in "The Merchant of Venice" by William Shakespeare and The Fool in "King Lear" by William Shakespeare. He also acted in 16 films (debut in Tudja zemlja (1957) and the greatest role in Noci i jutra (1959)), more than 40 TV dramas and 20 TV series, among which the most popular where Pozoriste u kuci (1972), Vise od igre (1976) and Srecni ljudi (1993). The character Rodja Petrovic in Novak Novak's TV serial Pozoriste u kuci (1972) is considered to be not only one of the greatest achievements of this actor, but also of the complete art production of TV Belgrade. He performed in different Belgrade theaters and in new TV series like Nasa mala redakcija (2002).

Lazar Ristovski was born in Ravno Selo in the province of Vojvodina. He graduated from the Teacher College in Sombor, and then completed the Belgrade Academy of Dramatic Arts, graduating as an actor. He lives and works in Belgrade. At the beginning of his career, he was deeply dedicated to theater performance where he masterfully played the classical repertoire including Shakespeare and Moliere; his creations of Hamlet at the Dubrovnik Summer Festival - directed by Oscar winner Jiri Menzel, and his interpretations of Don Juan and Amadeus are well-known. He appeared in many productions of plays by local writers such as Ducan Kovacevic, Aca Popovic, Stevan Koprivica, Sinisa Kovacevic, Radoslav Pavlovic. He delivered more than 4,000 performances. He also appeared in more than 80 films, TV series, and TV dramas - mostly in leading roles. His memorable roles are those in Podzemlje (Underground), Tito i ja, Do koske, Tako se kalio celik, Bure baruta, Balkanska pravila, Boomerang, Pad u raj, Mali svet, Sveti Georgije ubiva azdahu. He also appeared in Hollywood productions: The November Man, Casino Royale, and Along the Roadside. He starred in several European movies as well. As a producer, he completed thirteen feature films and has directed two: The White Suit and Beli Lavovi. The White Suit - his fully authored project - had its world premiere at the Cannes Film Festival in 1999 and was the Yugoslav candidate for the Academy Award. He made one of the most significant movie roles in his directorial debut with his son, Petar Ristovski, in "King Peter I". He is the recipient of numerous national and international prizes and recognitions. The Sterija Award, The October Prize of the city of Belgrade, the Zivojin Zika - Pavlovic Award, the Sergey Bondarchuk Award, three Grand Prix at the Nis Film Encounters, the Crystal Prism, the Zoran Radmilovic Award, the Golden Orlando at the Dubrovnik Festival, the Best Actor prize at the Valladolid Festival, as well as many others... He is the honorary citizen of Zemun. He has also written two novels, one collection of poems, and two storybooks. In collaboration with his two sons - Petar and Jovan, Lazar is the owner of the production company Zillion film.

Nikola Kojo was born on September 5, 1967 in Belgrade, Serbia, Yugoslavia. He is an Serbian actor and producer, known for Parada (2011), Pretty Village, Pretty Flame (1996) and We Are Not Angels (1992). He has been married to Aleksandra Djuric since 2006. They have three children. Nikola name comes from the great-grandfather, who was arch-priest of Mostar. Kojo is the film debut with less than 13 years, the role of the boy in the film Ivana "Working at a certain time". During the 1980s, played a prominent role in the film "The Igman march" (1983) TV series "Sivi dom" (1984), and one of the lead roles in three sequels ("What happens when love is born" - 1984 "Zikina dynasty" - 1985, "Second Zika dynasty" - 1986), a very popular film series "Crazy Years", which is profiled in one of the most famous actors of the younger generation in the former Yugoslavia. In 1992, he played a major role in the film Srdjan Dragojevic "We are not angels," by which it remains remarkable. Although it was all brought immense popularity and media attention, he continued to the increasing success and builds more seriously challenging roles in recent years, mainly in the film, because the theater withdrew indefinitely.

Milan Gutovic was a Serbian and Yugoslav actor, cabaret performer, and television personality. He graduated from the High School of Electrical Engineering "Nikola Tesla" in Belgrade, where he earned the nickname "Lane". Initially, Gutovic wanted to study at the Faculty of Mathematics, although he later enrolled in the Belgrade Academy for theater, cinema, radio, and television, from which he graduated in 1967. Later that year, he became a member of the Yugoslav Drama Theatre. After becoming a member of the Yugoslav Drama Theatre in 1967, he and other now-prominent actors became members of the so-called "Bojan's babies" club which included actors that were part of a permanent engagement in the Yugoslav Drama Theatre. Gutovic's film career began in 1968, in the movie "Bekstva". His first main role in a movie was in Mica Milosevic's movie "Drugarcine", which was recorded in 1979. Two years later, Gutovic was contacted by Milosevic to act in "Laf u srcu" where he played Srecko Sojic. Gutovic continued his role as Srecko Sojic in "Tesna koza", which was recorded in 1982. His first major role on television was in the comedy series "Diplomci", although, he earned more popularity in "Bolji zivot" and "Otvorena vrata". Between 2006 and 2011, he again portrayed Srecko Sojic in "Bela ladja", which was a loose continuation of "Tesna koza". After leaving "Bela ladja", he retired. Gutovic is also widely known around the world for his "An usual evening" cabaret, which he performed from the 1990s until his death. His cabaret was the first show played in Serbian in the Broadway theatre. Besides performing in the National Theatre in Belgrade, he also performed in the Montenegrin National Theatre, Zvezdara Theatre, Slavija Theatre, BITEF, and many theatres. Between 2020 and July 2021, he performed in the "Putujuce pozoriste Sopalovic" show, in the Yugoslav Drama Theatre. On 19 August 2021, Gutovic's health suddenly deteriorated and he was transported to the Military Medical Academy for treatment. A day later, multiple unreliable tabloids published incorrect information that Gutovic had passed away. He actually died on 25 August 2021, 14 days after his 75th birthday.

Dugalic completed the elementary and high school in his hometown Kraljevo, and graduated to the Faculty of Dramatic Arts of the University of Arts in Belgrade in 1994.

Dugalic's home theater was the National Theater in Belgrade, but in 2000 he left the professional position there to pursue teaching career

In 2010, he directed and played in monodrama Confession of Dmitry Karamazov, based on Dostoyevsky's The Brothers Karamazov, for which he received the Silver Knight in Moscow and opened the first Festival of Monodrama and Pantomime in Zemun.

He has a long teaching career with the Academy of Arts, Belgrade, a private university specialized in drama arts. He became an assistant professor in 2001, and full professor in 2007. He was the dean on the same Academy for the school year 2015/2016.