Dennis Keith Tobiason, 62 of Kalispell passed away April 1st, 2019 from complications of diabetes and congestive heart failure at Kalispell Regional Medical Center with his family by his side. Dennis never let his health conditions stop him from living a life full to the brim with enjoyment and happiness.

Dennis was born December 15, 1956 in Culbertson MT to Cynthia (Stevens) and Donald Bergeron. Shortly thereafter Cynthia married Freddie Tobiason; who adopted Dennis. Dennis considered Fred his DAD for life. The family moved around Montana and surrounding states following Fred’s work until they settled in Kalispell when Dennis was in elementary school. He graduated from Flathead High School in 1975. After graduation he worked for several restaurants and Columbia Falls Aluminum Plant before attending Dawson Community College in Glendive. He received an AAS Degree in Political Science in 1979, and became the Town Marshall of Cascade, fulfilling a lifelong dream of law enforcement.

Dennis met the love of his life, Helen Louise Dostal, at freshman orientation in Glendive. Dennis and Helen were married in Helen’s hometown of Geraldine on July 28th, 1979 and made their first home in Cascade. He loved his time working with the community and earned the affectionate nickname of “Wilbur” from the local youth. In 1982 the family moved to Helen’s parents’ farm east of Geraldine. Farming and Ranching quickly became a great love of Dennis’. Despite long hours and lots of work he enjoyed the life of wide open spaces, hunting, trapping, prairie dog towns, branding, family, neighbors and friends and the pigs. After two broken knees from farm accidents it was time for a new adventure and back to school he went. Dennis attended the Vo-tech in Great Falls, receiving dual degrees in Micro Computer Management and Accounting. Before graduation he was hired by Park County’s Accounting Department and in May of 1989 the family moved to Livingston. Dennis ran for and was elected Park County Assessor. Even after Assessors were made State of Montana employees, constituents would still visit the office and assure him they were voting for him. He was Treasurer for the state employee union and served for several years traveling all around the state to meetings and representing state employees in need. In 2000 the family moved to Kalispell to be closer to his parents. In May of that year he accepted a position with Flathead Electric Cooperative and worked in multiple positions until his passing.

Beyond work Dennis was very active serving in leadership roles with many organizations over the years. He was a Financial Secretary and Treasurer for the Knights of Columbus and Elks, Cub Scout Leader, BSA Scout Master and lead several scout groups to Summer Camp at K-M. He was a member of the Order of the Arrow and truly loved helping all three of his sons on their path to Eagle Scout. Not to stop there, he was a Girl Scout leader guiding his daughters’ troop to Pompeys Pillar and Wild Rose Camp. At the time of his death he was the Knight of the month at Risen Christ his home Parish.

Dennis and Helen’s love grew into 7 children and a multitude of grand and great-grandchildren, all whom survive him. Cassandra Hansen; Christopher (Virginia) Tobiason & children Matthew, Shay & Charlotte; Dennis Mason Tobiason & daughter Kesse; Alexandria (Scott) Warren & children Catherine Warren, Claire (Connor) Murray & sons Michael & James, Joe (Liz) Warren & children Owen & Avery, Kelley (Mike) Walden & sons Nathen & David; Jennifer Tobiason DVM; Bartholomew (Fresa) Tobiason & children Bartholomew II, Lilian & Sebastian; Veronica (Joshua) Roberts & children Kaden & Payton. Also surviving are his mother-in-law Bernadine Dostal, Aunts Ardiss (Dale) Kunze, Beverly Tobiason, Uncles Earl (Kathy) Tobiason and Lorring (Ardie) Stevens, brother James (Bonnie) Tobiason and family, sister Valorie (William) Robbins and family and numerous cousins and extended family.

Preceding Dennis in death were his parents, sister Tammy Jean Tobiason, father-in-law Stanley Dostal, maternal grandparents DennisMason & Anna Stevens, paternal grandparents Melvin & Bertha Tobiason, Uncles and Aunts Ralph (Lillian) Stevens, David (Janette) Stevens, Wilbur Tobiason, Arlo Tobiason, along with other extended family members.

Services will be held at Risen Christ Catholic church, 65 W Evergreen Drive. Rosary followed by sharing Friday, April 12th at 7:45pm. Celebration of Life Mass Saturday, April 13th at 10:30am, followed by a luncheon. Burial of ashes will take place in Geraldine at a date to be announced. Friends are encouraged to visit our website at www.buffalohillfh.com to leave notes of condolences for the family. Buffalo Hill Funeral Home and Crematory caring for the family.