Retired Deputy District Attorney Scott Carbaugh remembered a time when late Long Beach homicide detective Dennis Robbins was told that a murder suspect hated the police and would never talk to cops.

The remark didn’t phase him.

During his investigation, Robbins found one of the suspect’s friends, who gave him a key piece of information – the suspect was obsessed with the song “Drama” by Ice-T and fixated on a phrase in the lyrics, “DA reject.”

That phrase, Carbaugh explained, meant that a district attorney had decided not to press charges against a suspect after reviewing evidence. Robbins went out, found the CD and listened to the track in order to use it to his advantage.

When entering the interrogation room to interview the suspect, Robbins told him to take a long look at his partner, then he instructed him to do the same to Robbins.

“Do you see ‘DA reject’ on our faces?” Robbins asked.

“The guy gave a full confession,” Carbaugh told a room of about 300 family, friends and colleagues of Robbins at Seacoast Grace Church in Cypress as he highlighted Robbins’ meticulous attention to detail. Those in attendance had gathered for a memorial service for Robbins, who passed away on Jan. 3 at age 66, more than 10 years after his retirement from the Long Beach Police Department.

He leaves behind his wife of 30 years, Heidi, and their two children, Eric and Kristen, both of whom work in law enforcement – Eric an officer with LBPD, and Kristen a deputy with the Orange County Sheriff’s Department. He also leaves behind his brother, Randy, who is also a retired LBPD detective.

Heidi is an assistant director of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Crime Lab.

Heidi and Kristen Robbins both spoke at the memorial service of Dennis’ dry sense of humor and his endless support. Heidi first met Dennis Robbins when he walked in to the coroner’s office to ask questions regarding a case.

He had a James Bond swagger, she said, adding that he was a great judge of character and made so many people feel safe on top of consistently supporting her and their two children.

“Our lives will never be the same without him,” Heidi said, “but the world is no doubt a better place for the time he was here.”

As a member of the Long Beach Police Department, Robbins was known as the “Godfather of Homicide” and set the standard for how to work the position of homicide detective during his 24 years on homicide detail.

He had joined LBPD in 1979 after serving in the U.S. Army for three years and as a reserve officer with the Buena Park Police Department for two years.

Robbins was known for having superb interviewing skills and a deep knowledge of criminal law and procedure, which led to him being assigned to the FBI’s Violent Crimes and Unsolved Homicide Task Force from 1996 to 2002, officials said.

He developed relationships with victims’ families, worked hand-in-hand with the District Attorney’s office and worked meticulously through every detail of the crimes he covered in order to bring those responsible to justice.

“If anything needed extra attention to detail, Dennis was the one selected,” said Police Chief Robert Luna. “There were special bonds he had with the families of the victims. He always took time to get to know the families.”

He also worked on some of the department’s more prominent cases, including that of Manfred Shockner, a Long Beach millionaire who hired a hit man to kill his wife in November 2004. The case initially looked like a botched robbery, officials said, but Robbins’ investigative work uncovered the true motive and Shockner was sentenced to life in prison in 2007.

He also helped prosecutors rebuild a trial against Earl Lloyd Jackson, whose 30-year-old death penalty case was reversed by the U.S.9th Circuit Court of Appeals in 2008. Robbins’ work led to Jackson being sentenced to death a second time in 2010 for the murders of two elderly women in Long Beach in 1977.

Luna worked with Robbins briefly on the Homicide Detail and said he could have won an Academy Award for his death stare.

“He had relentless work ethic,” Luna said. “When he had a victim, he never stopped.”

Robbins would not only work the case, he would think about how a defense attorney might argue the case and try to find evidence to disprove those potential arguments while being ethically sound, Carbaugh, the retired prosecutor, said.

“Dennis was your partner in prosecution,” said Bill Hodgman, a retired prosecutor who worked with Robbins in Long Beach in the 1980s. “He would think strategically about what the defense might present and would work to close those holes.”

Robbins worked well with victims’ families and would do whatever was necessary to get witnesses and evidence for trial, said Erik Herzog, LBPD deputy chief.

“That was typical of him,” Herzog said. “He was miles ahead when it came to bonding with families, following up and keeping them involved in the case.”

Robbins never sought credit for the work he did, his colleagues said. During his tenure, he was named the department’s Officer of the Year in 2005 and also received a Purple Heart after he was shot in the leg by a suspect who was later captured and charged with attempted murder. That incident happened in 1980, one year after he joined the Department.

He also received the Long Beach Police Department Meritorious Service award after he rescued a 6-year-old girl who was being held by a sex registrant in his apartment.

“He was humble, behind the scenes and never took credit for anything,” said Mark Lillienfield, a retired Los Angeles County sheriff’s detective who worked with Robbins on the FBI assignment. “He was the best there was in so many ways.”

Robbins’ 37-year career included a six-year stint in Sex Crimes Detail, where he became an expert in human trafficking crimes, as well as cold case work for both Long Beach and Inglewood Police Departments following his 2009 retirement. He also joined the District Attorney’s Office as a hearing officer for four years.

But more than anything, Dennis Robbins was known for the never ending support he provided his family, colleagues and anyone else who came in contact with him, even if he didn’t much vocalize it.

“His true legacy is being an excellent role model to his kids. That’s devotion. That’s his legacy,” Luna said.

“He was a good man,” Hodgman said. “He was one of the best.”