Albania, on Southeastern Europe’s Balkan Peninsula, is a small country with Adriatic and Ionian coastlines and an interior crossed by the Albanian Alps. The area 28,748 km2. The country has many castles and archaeological sites. Capital Tirana centers on sprawling Skanderbeg Square, site of the National History Museum, with exhibits spanning antiquity to post-communism, and frescoed Et’hem Bey Mosque.

​

Tirana is the capital and most populous city of Albania. The city is also the capital of the surrounding county of Tirana, one of 12 constituent counties of the country. By air, it is 501 kilometres (311 miles) north of Athens, 613 kilometres (381 miles) southeast of Rome, 153 kilometres (95 miles) southwest of Skopje and 131 kilometres (81 miles) south of Podgorica.

Obverse: Nominal value, a horisontal line runs across the centre, "Antikiteti shqiptar" (Albanian Antiquity) written along the upper arch.

Reverse: "Republika e Shqipërisë" (Republic of Albania) written along the upper arch, "Antikiteti Shqiptar" (Albanian Antiquity) along the lower arch; the year of minting at the center of the arch; an Illyrian helmet in the centre.

Obverse: Nominal value and branches in the form of a wreath.

Reverse: Inscription "Republika e Shqipërisë" (Republic of Albania) written along the upper arch; the year of minting at the bottom; the Liburnian ship in the centre.

Obverse: Nominal value and branches in the form of a wreath.

Reverse: Inscription "Republika e Shqipërisë" (Republic of Albania) written along the upper arch; the year of minting at the bottom; the Castle of Berat in the centre.

Obverse: Nominal value and branches in the form of a wreath.

Reverse: Inscription "Republika e Shqipërisë" (Republic of Albania) written along the upper arch; the year of minting at the bottom; a pelican in the centre.

Albania 500 Lek 2001 rev

Reverse: View of the building where the Provisional Government of Vlora worked, today the National Museum of Independence; a stylised image of the room where the decision to declare Albania’s independence was made and of the telegraph with the news. First in circulation on11.07.1997