Stream "He's All That" on Netflix today!

Take this time to get to know screenwriter R. Lee Fleming Jr. This amazing writer has been involved with both film and television projects. His TV credits include Friends, One Tree Hill, The Lying Game, All Night, Light as a Feather, and Secrets of Sulphur Springs. He wrote the '90s teen classic film She's All That and now he returned to write the remake titled He's All That.

​1.List three adjectives to describe He’s All That.

Hmm… how about, 1) Funny 2) Romantic 3) Coming soon to Netflix (not really an adjective, I know).

2.She’s All That is such a classic ‘90s teen film. What drew you to write the 2021’s remake and furthermore gender-swapped this version?

Several times since the original movie came out, there’d been discussions of a She’s All That sequel/reboot/TV show, but nothing ever came of it. Then about two years ago, two of the original producers, Jennifer Gibgot and Andrew Panay contacted me about doing He’s All That. It was really surprising how quickly it started to come together after that.

3.What challenges did you face while writing He’s All That?

I guess the trickiest part was keeping the story fresh while at the same time staying reasonably faithful to the original. Updating it with 2021 stuff — especially the social media/TikTok element -- was a lot of fun!

4.What is one thing you miss about the ‘90s and what is one thing that you do not miss about the ‘90s?

Well, for one, I occasionally miss being in my twenties. I don’t miss dial-up internet, though — or some of my skate rat-inspired PacSun wardrobe choices.

5.What is your favorite scene from the movie?

Although I’m tempted to say the infamous pizza scene because I still can’t believe that made it into the movie, I’m gonna go with Laney and Zack’s kiss in the back yard at the end.

6.What was your experience like working with Mark Waters, the director of He’s All That?

Mark was fantastic! Everything was over Zoom because of the pandemic, but it was a blast working on the script with him. He’s a super-smart, funny guy. I was so excited when he signed on to do the movie!

7.Were you able to conversate with Tanner Buchanan, Addison Rae, Rachael Leigh Cook, Matthew Lillard, Peyton Meyer or any of the cast members? If so, could you give one, interesting fact about them?

Unfortunately, because of COVID, I never got to be on set for this one, but it was really exciting getting to hear everybody perform the script out loud for the first time at the (Zoom) table read.

8.You wrote episodes for the TV show “Friends”, could you talk about your experience? Did you meet any cast members?

I’d been a huge fan of the show before I got to work on it. In fact, when I was working on the Warner Bros. lot as a production assistant in the mid-90s, I was able to be in the audience for the filming of almost the first two seasons. That was a blast!

Once I was hired to write on the show, it was obviously exciting — and intimidating. I learned a lot, though, and I still get excited when I catch an episode and hear one of my lines.

Oh, and I did spend a lot of time around the cast, but since I wasn’t a producer, I didn’t interact with any of them one-on-one that often. I do remember Matt LeBlanc calling me “Junior” after a table read of one of my scripts. I believe his exact words were, “Nice work, Junior.” So there was that.

9.You also wrote for the book-based TV series The Lying Game and Light as Feather. What were your fondest memories when you worked on those shows?

The Lying Game was great because it was my first time to really spend a lot of time on set as a producer, so I learned a ton working on that show. Light as a Feather will always be special to me because it was my first opportunity to work as a showrunner.

10. Have you made a cameo on any of your projects? If so, which ones?

Maybe next time, although I can’t imagine anyone other than my mom wanting to see that.

11. What is your writing schedule in general?

Gosh, I wish I could say I had a consistent schedule. It all depends on how pressing my next deadline is. Ideally, I’ll start writing before 10. Quite often I’ll use the “Pomodoro method” to get work done. Using a timer, I’ll get my work done in 25 minute bursts, broken up by five minute breaks. Once I’ve finished three 25-minute sessions, I’ll reward myself with a 15 minute break. When it’s really working, I can get 4-7 hours of writing done that way. Of course, that’s on a good day.

12. Which filmmakers/screenwriters do you admire growing up?

I think I was most profoundly influenced by the John Hughes movies that came out when I was in high school. I remember seeing Some Kind of Wonderful in the theater six days in a row the week it came out.

13. What would your films/TV series fans be most surprised to learn about you?

Difficult question. Few things about me are particularly surprising I did once meet Jacques Cousteau when I was a kid Oh, and one time I gave Drew Barrymore a ride in a golf cart. (Yep, that’s all I’ve got.)

14. Have you considered adapting any short story/novella/novel for a feature film in the near future? If so, which one?

I’m actually looking at a couple of things now, but nothing's for sure yet.

15. If a self-published author is seeking a screenwriter or producer, how would one get you to read his or her story to see if it would make a compelling film?

Probably the best thing would be to reach out through my representatives.

16. If you could be a “fly on the wall” anywhere at any time, where would you like to be?

I’d like to go back and watch myself give Drew Barrymore that ride in the golf cart.

17. Last question, what event/game did you watch with great interest or curiosity during Tokyo’s 2020 Olympics?

I usually follow them more than I did this time around. I guess I most closely followed the drama of the Men's Basketball team losing those games early on before rallying for the gold. The games are a lot closer than they used to be!

​

Thank you R. Lee for taking your time to answering those Novelpro Junkie questions. You guys should definitely check out his latest film He's All That. Also, check out the original film She's All That whenever possible. Thank you readers for stopping by here and I hope you guys have a wonderful day.