Actress Jada Pinkett Smith revealed a bombshell in her memoir "worthy" about her marriage with Will Smith. In her book, she revealed that she and Will Smith have been separated and living separate lives since 2016. She also mentioned the moment at 2022 Academy Awards when Will Smith went on stage and slapped presenter Chris Rock after he made a joke about her head.

Here is a statement from Jada Pinkett Smith about the incident from People.com:

“I thought, ‘This is a skit,’. Not believing it was real at first, “I was like, ‘There’s no way that Will hit him’. It wasn’t until Will started to walk back to his chair that I even realized it wasn’t a skit.”

Jada also said the first thing she said to Will when they were alone backstage were “‘Are you okay?'”

In an interview, Jada Pinkett Smith said her and Will Smith had not previously gone public with that news because they were not “ready yet.” She also said there were “a lot of things” that led to the fracturing of the relationship. She said by 2016, both of them were exhausted trying.

Similar Topic: Actress Jada Pinkett Smith Reveals Memoir's Title

Jada Pinkett Smith and Smith have been married since 1997. Pinkett Smith said they are not legally divorced and do not plan to divorce.

She said she “made a promise” that there would never be a reason for her and Smith to divorce “and I just haven’t been able to break that promise,” she said.

Jada's memoir Worthy will be released next Tuesday, October 17th.

Here is the goodreads synopsis of Worthy:

A gripping, painfully honest, and ultimately inspirational memoir from global superstar and creator of the Red Table Talk series Jada Pinkett Smith. In a media driven landscape that crafts narratives for our celebrities, Smith recounts her story in an intimate conversation with readers. Along the way, she explores her path to accepting her power as a woman, and her discovery that a strong sense of self is every woman’s right and saving grace.

An impactful and rare memoir that engages and educates, Worthy is a courageous love song to self, to family, to life, and to the world.

From an unconventional upbringing in Baltimore, to an unconventional marriage to one of the most famous men in the world, adhering to the status quo has never been a familiar road for Jada Pinkett Smith. In Worthy, Smith strips herself of all the labels and stories crafted by others, and reclaims her narrative with radical self-love. Worthy teaches us who Jada is, and how to embrace our most authentic lovable souls.

​Source: Deadline.com