CHINA GROVE, N.C. (WBTV) - A China Grove man is facing several charges after allegedly kidnapping a woman and admitting to planning her mutilation and murder, according to the Rowan County Sheriff’s Office.

Deputies say they received a call on Wednesday from a woman saying she was attacked. She told deputies that Hunter Chase Nance, 24, came up to her at a gas station and the two exchanged phone numbers.

[Read also: Rowan County sheriff discusses deadly deputy-involved shooting]

Later that day, deputies say he offered to pick her up and take her back to his home on Peaceful Lane in China Grove. When they got to his home, he allegedly locked the door and attacked her with a knife, deputies say.

She was able to escape, and community members called first responders after seeing an injured woman walking down the road.

Deputies say he told them he chose her randomly and wanted to kill her “for the thrill.” He allegedly told them he wanted to mutilate her and leave her body out for cars to see.

Deputies say he also expressed interest in killing others and cannibalism.

“It’s unbelievable,” said his next-door neighbor, Paula Fullbright.

“I mean obviously it could’ve ended up worse. Thank God the girl was strong enough to fight him off and get away. Honestly, I’ve had thoughts go across my mind, ‘what if he tried to break in my house and get one of my daughters?’ That’s terrible that I even have that thought, I wish I hadn’t, but that is the reality of it right now.”

“It’s a fear. You don’t know who you’re living next to anymore,” added another neighbor, Richard Dawson.

Nance was arrested and charged with false imprisonment and assault with a deadly weapon at first, and was then given a first-degree kidnapping charge.

He was being held under a $600,000 bond until Monday. That’s when an additional charge of attempted murder was added. Bond is now $1.2 million.

On Tuesday Nance appeared in court for a first appearance on the new charge. He was given a date of March 8 to return to court on all the charges. Todd Paris is his court-appointed attorney.