Happy Wheels: The Movie is an upcoming adult animated black comedy film directed by Conrad Vernon and written by Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg. It stars the voices of Gary Cole, Steve Carell, Paul Rudd, Nicole Oliver, Jonah Hill, Emma Stone, Craig Robinson, John Goodman, Bill Hader, Michael Cera, Kristen Wiig and Rogen.

Voice cast[]

Gary Cole as Jerry the Wheelchair Guy

Steve Carell as Steve the Segway Guy

Paul Rudd as John the Irresponsible Dad

Nicole Oliver as Emily the Effective Shopper

Jonah Hill as Tom the Moped Husband

Emma Stone as Lisa the Moped Wife

Craig Robinson as Larry the Lawnmower Man

John Goodman as Santa Claus

Bill Hader as Jones the Explorer Guy

Michael Cera as Johnny the Pogostick Man

Kristen Wiig as Jenny the Irresponsible Mom

Seth Rogen as Kevin the Helicopter Man

Release[]

Happy Wheels: The Movie is set to release in 2025. It was planning to be released in 2024, but delayed. It well also premiere in Canada, Mexico, Iceland, Chile, Colombia, Brazil, Argentina, Peru, UK and Ireland, Spain, Portugal, Netherlands, France, Germany, Russia, Poland, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Egypt, South Africa, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Basque Country, Catalonia, Croatia, China, Czech Republic, Australia, New Zealand, Estonia, Philippines, Greece, Israel, Indonesia, Hungary, Italy, India, Japan, South Korea, Macedonia, Malaysia, Iran, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia, Slovakia, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, Vietnam, Cuba, Venezuela, Belgium, Austria, Switzerland and some more. It well also be released in DVD, Blu-Ray and VCD.

Video Game Demo on DVD Release[]

See Happy Wheels: The Series. It is removed on the Blu-Ray and VCD releases.

Dubs[]

The film is dubbed in these languages.

Albanian - Rrota të lumtur

Arabic - عجلات سعيدة

Azerbaijani - Xoşbəxt Təkərlər

Armenian - Շնորհավոր անիվներ

Basque - Gurpil zoriontsuak

Bosnian - Sretni točkovi

Bulgarian - Щастливи колела

Catalan - Happy Wheels

Chinese - 快乐车轮

Croatian - Sretni kotači

Czech - Happy Wheels

Danish - Glade hjul

Dutch - Blije wielen

English - Happy Wheels

Estonian - Rõõmsad rattad

Filipino - Maligayang Gulong

Finnish - Happy Wheels

French - Roues heureuses

German - Happy Wheels

Greek - Happy Wheels

Hebrew - גלגלים מאושרים /

Hindi - हैप्पी व्हील्स

Hungarian - Boldog kerekek

Icelandic - Hamingjusamur hjól

Irish - Rothaí sona

Indonesian - Roda bahagia

Italian - Ruote felici

Japanese - ハッピーホイール

Korean - 행복한 바퀴

Latvian - Laimīgi riteņi

Lithuanian - Laimingi ratai

Malay - Roda gembira

Macedonian - Среќни тркала

Norwegian - Glade hjul

Persian - چرخ های مبارک

Polish - Happy Wheels

Portuguese - Rodas Felizes

Romanian - Roți fericite

Russian - Счастливые колеса

Scottish Gaelic - Cuibhleannan toilichte

Serbian - Хаппи Вхеелс

Slovak - Happy Wheels

Slovenian - Srečna kolesa

Spanish - Ruedas felices

Swedish - Glada hjul

Thai - วงล้อหรรษา

Turkish - Mutlu tekerlekler

Ukrainian - Щасливі колеса

Vietnamese - Happy Wheels

Welsh - Olwynion Hapus

Rating[]

The film well get a R rating.

Merchandise[]

McDonald's Toys[]

Segway Guy

Irresponsible Dad

Wheelchair Guy

Jim Bonacci

Matt the Bunny

Happy Wheels Sign

In some Happy Meals, you can get a mini poster with the film logo.

Clothing[]

Shirts

Pants

Shoes

Socks

Hats

Toys[]

Happy Wheels

D.E.A.T.H.S

BMX Park

Segway Guy with Segway, Irresponsible Dad with Son and Bike, Effective Shopper with his shopping cart and food, Matt the Bunny with carrots, Jim Bonacci with a PC and Mystery Boxes figures

Lego Happy Wheels[]

TBA

Variant Logos[]

Warner Bros. Pictures - The shield and byline turns blue and pink as the same colours as the film logo.

TotalJerkFace Films - None.

Fancy Force - None.

Reception[]

Box Office[]

After the film released, the Box Office was a success to WB. There might be a sequel.

Critical Response[]

Within the first release of the film, it had received 85% rating in Rotten Tomatoes and 93% in IMDB.

Video Game[]

A video game has announced. It is called Happy Wheels the Movie Game.

TV Show[]

The TV show well premiere in TV. Then later it appeared in Netflix. It is called The Happy Wheels Show, not to be confused as the HW series. The Happy Wheels Show is live-action and the HW series is animation.

Trivia[]

Happy Wheels/Trivia

Other[]