If you ask Ralphie May for the secret to his success as a comedian, he might tell you it was his grandmother’s crochet needles.

Sam Kinison may have been his comedic role model, but May says it was his grandmother who really taught him how to create a standup act.

“When I was a kid, my grandmother taught me how to crochet and how to quilt, and that’s kind of how I do an act,” May says.

Several months ago, May put grandmom’s skills to the ultimate test. He weaved together a two-hour show, sold out the 2,750-seat Cobb Energy Performing Arts Center in Atlanta and brought in the TV cameras to record it all in front of a raucous, fist-pumping room of fans.

On Feb. 27, May’s special, “Unruly,” will debut in a time slot other comics would kill for. The no-holds-barred show will air on Netflix immediately following the season three premiere of the series “House of Cards.”

May, who turned 43 this week, said the prospect of following the wildly popular political drama isn’t lost on him. Sure, he headlined five Comedy Central specials, but the Netflix gig is light years beyond what he did on the chuckle channel.

“The wave for ‘House of Cards’ is a tsunami and I’m the fat guy trying to body surf,” the portly performer says. “It’s going to be incredible. (Netflix is) taking me to the middle of the country. They’re taking me into people’s homes. I’m the luckiest guy in America.”

The audience who catches May at Borgata’s Music Box Friday night will likely hear some of the bits he performs in “Unruly.” Uncensored and unfiltered, May will riff on race, pop culture, the dangers of meeting journalist Anderson Cooper, his own excesses (he was once a heavy pot smoker), airline travel and the media.

But it all goes back to lessons he learned from his grandmom as a kid. Like crocheting a sweater or creating a quilt, May uses a variety of comedy patterns to create a show.

Unlike many comedians who specialize in a particular style of comedy — stories, one-liners, observational, self-deprecating — May moves easily between formats and comic genres.

“I have one-liners, I have dirty jokes, but I also have long stories that are 10 or 20 minutes long and the laughs come every eight seconds,” he says as he describes the different comedy styles he weaves together to create a show.

May was smitten by comedy when he was just 13 and performed stand up at a church conference. When he was just 17 and a dual enrollment student in both high school and college, May won a contest that quickly changed his life.

The grand prize was an opening slot ahead of Kinison. At the time, Kinison was one of the edgiest and most controversial comedians in the business. After watching May perform — and seeing a lot of himself in the young performer — Kinison convinced May to move to Houston, which had a vibrant comedy scene.

“He told me to move to Houston,” May explains, “so I didn’t wait untill graduation. I just left. ‘I’m going to Houston to do standup.’ And that was 25 years ago. It’s crazy.”

In Houston, May was able to find work at the city’s seven comedy clubs. It wasn’t easy; time slots at the clubs were a challenge, because many up-and-coming performers were getting their feet wet there.

But May persevered. He landed a spot on a local radio show, which helped boost his visibility at the clubs.

In 2003, about a dozen years after he broke into the business, May went national. He won a spot on the debut season of the NBC reality series “Last Comic Standing” and finished second to Vietnam-born comic Dat Phan.

May kept his act comparatively clean for the TV cameras. But his live show isn’t for everyone.

For starters, better leave the kids for this one, or be prepared to answer a lot of uncomfortable questions on the ride home.

And check your inhibitions at the door. May’s show is flat-out dirty. But it’s also layered in a way that makes his performance more conversational than most comedians who perform one setup-and-punch line after another.

Besides touring stateside with his comedy show, May travels the world performing for America’s armed forces. He’s performed in war zones 19 times in USO shows and also is a strong supporter of the Wounded Warrior Project.

He’s also developing two more television programs; an unscripted reality series for Ryan Seacrest Productions and a scripted series for Will Ferrell’s Gary Sanchez Productions.

Around town

The tribute band Rain presents the music of The Beatles at Harrah’s Resort Friday at 9 p.m. Tickets range from $42.25 to $84.75, available through ticketmaster.com or (800) 736-1420.

IF YOU GO

Ralphie May performs in Borgata’s Music Box Friday at 9 p.m. Tickets are $35 and $39, available through theborgata.com or ComcastTIX at (877) 544-8499.