Leonard H. Macalush

Leonard Herbert Macalush, Reader Leonty, 60, of Emmaus, and formerly of Coaldale, passed away on Thursday, Feb. 23, in his home. He was the husband of Carol (Van Horn) Macalush.

He worked for Grifols Biological as a regional sales manager.

Born in Coaldale, he was a son of Benjamin and Olga (Herbert) Macalush of Coaldale.

A 1969 graduate of Panther Valley High School, he received a Registered Pharmacist Degree from Temple University and a Master of Public Administration Degree from Kutztown University.

The deceased was a member of St. Mary Russian Orthodox Church, Coaldale.

Surviving in addition to his widow and parents are several nieces and a great-nephew.

Service: Funeral service 11 a.m. Saturday, Feb. 25, St. Mary Russian Orthodox Church, 217 First St., Coaldale with the Rev. Daniel Mathewson officiating. Interment, parish cemetery, Summit Hill. Call 6-8 p.m. Friday and 10-11 a.m. Saturday in the church. Panachida service 7 p.m. Friday. Contributions in his name may be made to St. Mary Russian Orthodox Church, 217 First St., Coaldale, Pa. 18218. Arrangements by Thomas J. Parambo Funeral Home, 54 W. Fell St., Summit Hill. Online condolences may be signed at www.parambofh.com.

Published in Times News on February 24, 2012

MARY C. (BOYLE) DORRIAN

Mary Cecelia (Boyle) Dorrian, 73, Laureldale, died Thursday, Nov. 25, 2010, in Reading Hospital. She was married on June 25, 1960, to Thomas Joseph Dorrian. Born in Coaldale, Schuylkill County, she was a daughter of the late Donald and Grace A. (O'Gorman) Boyle. Mary was a 1955 graduate of St. Mary's Catholic High School, Coaldale. She was a member of Holy Guardian Angels Roman Catholic Church, Hyde Park. In addition to her husband, Mary is survived by her two daughters, Grace A., wife of Kevin McCarthy, Feasterville, Bucks County, and Kathleen S. Dorrian, Morrisville, Bucks County; brother, Joseph, husband of Julie (Hutta) Boyle, Coaldale; and granddaughter, Kayleigh D. McCarthy, Feasterville. She was predeceased by her two siblings, Donald Boyle and Grace Ann Boyle. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated Tuesday, Nov. 30, at 10 a.m. in Holy Guardian Angels RC Church, 3121 Kutztown Road, Reading. A viewing will be held Monday evening from 6:30 to 8:00 in Walter R. Christ Funeral Home Inc., 3300 Kutztown Road, Laureldale, and Tuesday morning from 9:30 to 10 in the church. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to St. Jude Children's Research Hospital , 501 St Jude Place, Memphis, TN 38105 or www.stjude.org. For online condolences, visit www.christfuneralhome.com.

Born 2/25/1937

Died 11/25/2010

Burial Date 11/30/2010

William H. Barnhart

William H. Barnhart, 55, of East Miner Street, Coaldale, died Saturday, Oct. 15, courageously at home, surrounded by and in the care of his family. He was the husband of Catherine A. (Price) Barnhart. They were married for 35 years.

He was employed by the Sam Adams Brewery, Fogelsville, and previously worked for the former Atlas Powder, Reynolds, and the Dana Corporation.

Born in Palmerton, he was a son of the late Howard and Verna (Miller) Barnhart.

He was a member of St. Jerome Catholic Church, Tamaqua, where he served as lector and Eucharist Minister, and was also a 3rd Degree member of the Fr. Henry Baker Council, Knights of Columbus.

A 1974 Panther Valley High School graduate, he attended Penn State, Hazelton, majoring in forestry. He earned an associate's degree as an electrical engineering from Lincoln Technical School, Allentown.

He was a P.I.A.A. referee, officiating high school volleyball, basketball and track and field. He coached CYO basketball and volleyball.

Surviving in addition to his widow are a daughter, Catherine A. " Katie," PharmD, wife of Robert Adinolfi, Esqu., of North Wales; a granddaughter, Bridget Catherine; his in-laws, Bill and Catherine Price of Coaldale; and a sister Linda of Jim Thorpe.

Service: Mass of Christian Burial 11 a.m. Tuesday, Oct. 18, St. Jerome Catholic Church, Tamaqua. Interment, parish cemetery, Tamaqua. Call 9-10:30 a.m. Tuesday, E. Franklin Griffiths Funeral Home, 655 E. Broad St., Tamaqua. Contributions in his name may be made to the ALS Assoc., Greater Philadelphia Chapter, 321 Norristown Rd., Suite 260, Ambler, Pa. 19002, or the VNA Hospice of St. Luke Hospital, 2455 Black River Rd., Bethlehem, Pa. Online registry and condolences may be signed at www.griffithsfuneralhomes.com.

Published in Times News on October 17, 2011

Nester Palumbo, (81) of West Foster Avenue, Coadale, died Tuesday in his home. He was the husband of Anna (Pace) Palumbo.

Prior to retiring in 1982, he owned and operated Nester's Welding in the Seek section of Coaldale.

Born in Riopiano, Italy, he was a son of the late Franco and Carolina (Cicozzi) Palumbo.

A veteran of the Korean War, he served with the U.S. Army.

He was a member of St. Jerome's Catholic Church, Tamaqua.

A 1950 graduate of the former St. Jerome's High School, he studied welding while attending trade school.

Surviving, in addition to his wife, are nephews and nieces, Frank Palumbo of Hellertown and his wife, Jacqueline, Robert Palumbo of Lehighton and his wife, Kerri;, Carol, wife of Bill Descher of Ocean Springs, Miss., and Alberto Masciovecchio, Paolo Masciovecchio, Claudia Pace and Assunta Pace, all in Italy.

He was also preceded in death by a brother, Ezio Palumbo; and a sister, Velia Cicozzi.

Services: Mass of Christian Burial, 11 a.m., Friday, St. Jerome RC Church, Tamaqua, with the Rev. James Bechtel officiating. Interment, parish cemetery. Call Friday, 9:30-10:30 a.m., Zizelmann-Roche Funeral Home, 500 E. Broad St., Tamaqua. Online registry at www.zrgfuneralhomes.com.

Published in Times News on August 3, 2011

Peter Wyshosky, 44, of 11 E. Walter St., Summit Hill, formerly of Coaldale passed away on Monday, July 18, 2011, at St. Luke's Miner Memorial Hospital in Coaldale.

Born in Coaldale, he was the son of the late Peter and Patricia Wyshosky.

He was a graduate of Panther Valley High School and a graduate of Penn State University with a degree in Electrical Engineering.

He worked for Lehigh Asphalt in Andreas in design and testing.

Peter was a member of St. Mary's Russian Orthodox Church in Coaldale.

Surviving is his fiancé, Shalmar Herlihy-Mantz, with whom he resided; a son, Peter Keegan at home; a stepdaughter, Kassandra at home.

Services: to be announced by the Thomas J. Parambo Funeral Home, 54 W. Fell St., Summit Hill. Online Condolences may be signed at www.parambofh.com.

George J. Heffelfinger

George J. "Chinky" Heffelfinger, 56, of 121 Miner St., Coaldale, passed away on Saturday, June 25, in his residence after a 10-year battle with cancer. He was the husband of Annette (Gorka) Heffelfinger. They celebrated their 36th wedding anniversary last September.

He worked for Silberline in Lansford for 37 years and was a union shop steward.

Born in Coaldale, he was a son of the late George E. and Joan A. (O'Donnell) Heffelfinger.

He was a 1972 graduate of Panther Valley High School.

Heffelfinger was of the Protestant faith.

He enjoyed spending his time at his brother's former gas station, Heffy's Fast Fill in Summit Hill. Chinky was an avid hunter and fisherman.

Surviving in addition to his widow are two sons, George S. of Lansford and Anthony T., and his companion, Melissa Malatak, of Nesquehoning; two brothers, Robert G., and his wife, Gloria, of Summit Hill, and Kenneth, and his wife, Christine, of Coaldale; a sister, Joan Heffelfinger of Coaldale; a grandson, George T. Heffelfinger; a granddaughter, Sophie A. Heffelfinger; several nieces and nephews and aunts and uncles.

Service: Funeral service 11 a.m. Wednesday, June 29, Thomas J. Parambo Funeral Home, 54 W. Fell St., Summit Hill, with the Rev. Dr. Wayne Benack officiating. Interment at convenience of family. Call 6-8 p.m. Tuesday and 10-11 a.m. Wednesday. Online condolences may be offered at www.parambofh.com.

Published in Times News on June 27, 20

Rev. John J. Foster

Rev. John J. Foster, Pastor Emeritus, St. Joseph the Worker Parish, Fallsington, Bucks County, died at Saint Mary Manor, Lansdale, on Monday, June 6.

Born March 4, 1925 in Coaldale, he was the son of the late George W. Foster and the late Isabel Daley.

He is survived by several cousins.Father Foster attended Saint Mary of the Assumption Parochial School and Saint Mary of the Assumption High School, Coaldale, before entering Saint Charles Borromeo Seminary.

Father Foster was ordained on March 19, 1951, at the Cathedral Basilica of Ss. Peter and Paul, Philadelphia, by the Most Reverend Hugh L. Lamb.

Father Foster served as Parochial Vicar at Our Lady of Pompeii Parish, Bethlehem, and Saint Philip Neri parish, Philadelphia. He also served on the faculty at St. James Catholic High School for Boys, Philadelphia.

Father Foster served as principal at Bishop McDevitt High School, Wyncote, from 1971 through 1983. He also served as pastor, St. Matthew parish, Conshohocken.

In March 1989, Father Foster was appointed pastor. St. Joseph the Worker Parish, Fallsington, and name Pastor Emeritus in 2000.

Services: The Reception of the Body will be held at St. Robert Bellarmine Church, Warrington, on Monday, June 13, at 9 a.m., where family, friends, clergy, and religious may call until 11 a.m. His Eminence Cardinal Justin Rigali will celebrate a funeral Mass for Father Foster at 11 a.m. Interment will be Wednesday, 11 a.m., at St. Joseph Cemetery, Summit Hill.

Condolences may be posted at www.doughertyfuneralhome.com.

Published in Times News on June 10, 2011

Anna N. Costello

Mrs. Anna N. Costello, 92, of Pottsville, died Wednesday, June 8, 2011, in her home. She was the wife of Stanley J. Costello, who she married in 1947.

She and her husband co-owned and operated Costello's Restaurant, Coaldale. Previously, she had been employed as a beautician in Lansford.

Born in Coaldale, she was a daughter of the late John and Eva (Gyiman) Kidda.

She was a member of St. Katherine Drexel Catholic Church, Lansford.

A graduate of Tamaqua High School, she also attended cosmetology and beautician school in Philadelphia.

A former Cub Scout Den Mother, she was a volunteer with the March of Dimes and an officer for the Coaldale Little League CHOSE organization.

Surviving, in addition to her husband, are a son, Stanley Jr., and his wife, Angela, of Lansford; two daughters, Marianne, wife of John Crampsie of Allentown and Lillian Rose Costello of Pottsville; three grandchildren, Lauren Crampsie and her husband, Jason Lotkowitctz of New York City, N.Y., Alexandra Balusek and Anthony Costello, both of Lansford; a brother, William Kidda of Edison, N.J., and his wife, Ceil; nieces and nephews.

She was also preceded in death by two sons, John and Paul Costello; a brother, John Kidda; and a sister, Mary Sourman.

Service: Mass of Christian Burial 11 a.m., Saturday, St. Katherine Drexel Catholic Church, Lansford, with the Rev. Kenneth Medve officiating. Interment, SS. Peter and Paul Cemetery, Summit Hill. Call 6-8 p.m., Friday or 9:30-10:30 a.m. Saturday, August M. Gulla Funeral Home, 130 E. Ridge St., Coaldale. Prayer service 10:15 a.m. Saturday. Online registry at www.zrgfuneralhomes.com.

Published in Times News on June

Pauline Oriel

Pauline Oriel, 90, formerly of Lansford, passed away on May 27, 2011 at St. Luke's Hospice, Bethlehem. She was the wife of the late Joseph F. Oriel who died in 1977.

Born in Coaldale, she was the daughter of the late Joseph and Elizabeth (Gabriel) Kruzik.

She graduated from St. Mary's High School, Coaldale in 1938 and Sacred Heart Hospital School of Nursing in Allentown in 1942. She worked for many years as a staff and private duty nurse at Coaldale State General Hospital. Pauline served as a captain in the U.S. Army Nurse Corps during WWII in Europe from 1943 to 1946 and received the Bronze Star for meritorious service as an AWACS nurse in the 34th Evacuation Hospital which moved through France, Belgium and Germany.

She was a member of St. Katharine Drexel Roman Catholic Church in Lansford and a member of the Lansford Amvets.

Surviving are sons, Dr. Robert Oriel and his wife, Kathleen of Allentown and Dennis Oriel and his wife, Mary Ann of Lehighton; five grandchildren and four great -grandchildren. She was preceded in death by a son, Leonard and infant daughter, Frances; brothers, Joseph Kruzik, Stephen Kruzik, and Anthony Kruzik; sisters, Mary Carpency, Anna Gazdick, and Julia Haynal.

Services: Mass of Christian Burial at 11 a.m. Wednesday, June 1, 2011 at St. Katharine Drexel Roman Catholic Church, 124 E. Abbott St., Lansford. Military interment will follow at St. Michael Cemetery, Summit Hill. Call 9 to 11 a.m. on Wednesday at the church. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to St. Luke's Hospice, 2455 Black River Rd., Bethlehem, PA 18015. Arrangements are being handled by the Thomas J. Parambo Funeral Home, 54 W. Fell St., Summit Hill. Online Condolences may be signed at www.parambofh.com.

Nicholas A. Allesch |

Nicholas A. Allesch, 21, of Coaldale, passed away unexpectedly Monday morning, May 2, in his residence.

Born in Lehighton, he was a son of Antoinette "Toni" Allesch of Coaldale.

He was a 2007 graduate of Panther Valley High School and was employed at Pappy's in Coaldale.

Surviving in addition to his mother are six aunts, Kathleen (Roy) Woodward of Owl Creek, Jackie (Pat) Fredericks of Barnesville, Melinda (Charles) Tuckey and Peggy Barcasky, both of Hazleton, Dorothy Weicker of Drums and Patricia Sommers of Lansdale; eight uncles, John of White Bear, Eddie of Lehighton, James of Parryville, Thomas of Bakersfield, Calif., Matthew of Tamaqua, Frank of Lansford, Christopher of Jim Thorpe and Jeremy Sommers of Summit Hill; numerous great-aunts and great-uncles and many cousins.

He was also preceded in death by his maternal grandparents, John and Margaret Allesch; and an uncle, Robert Allesch.

Service: Memorial Mass 10 a.m. Saturday, May 7, St. Joseph Catholic Church, Summit Hill, with the Rev. Jim Burdess officiating. Private interment at convenience of family. Call 6-9 p.m. Friday in the church. Contributions in his name may be made to a local animal shelter. Arrangements by Turnbach Funeral Home, 423 W. Broad St., Hazleton.

Published in Times News on May 5, 2011

Irene Macenka |

Mrs. Irene Macenka, 80, formerly of Coaldale, entered into eternal rest on Tuesday, March 22, in the Coney Island Hospital, Brooklyn, N.Y. She was the wife of William Macenka.

She worked on the production line of the former Atlas Powder Company, Reynolds, before retiring.

Born in Tamaqua, she was a daughter of the late Michael and Mary (Bitsko) Telepchak.

She was a former member of St. Nicholas Russian Orthodox Church, Bethlehem, and attended the Cathedral of the Holy Virgin Protection, New York City, N.Y.

Surviving in addition to her husband are a son Mark, and his wife, Vicki, of Moseley, Va.; a daughter Olga of Brooklyn; a sister, Eleanor Kovatch of Brockton; three grandchildren and many nieces and nephews.

She was also preceded in death by three brothers, John, Charles and Michael; and two sisters, Anne and Mary.

Service: Private funeral service at convenience of family. A memorial service will be held in New York City at a later date. Interment, Sky-View Memorial Park, Hometown. Arrangements by Joseph S. Blazosky Funeral Home, 81 E. Catawissa St., Nesquehoning.

Curtis DeFebo

Curtis DeFebo of Coaldale passed away Friday evening, March 25, in his home due to complications of Type 1 Diabetes.

Born in Coaldale, he was a son of Frank and Lisa (Holmes) DeFebo of Coaldale.

He was a former member of the Coaldale Volunteer Fire Company.

Surviving in addition to his parents are his maternal grandmother, Theresa (Vollman) Holmes of Hauto; paternal grandmother, Rita (Shigo) DeFebo of Coaldale; two sisters, Samantha and Theresa, and a brother, Frankie DeFebo III, all of Coaldale.

Service: Memorial service will be held at a later date at the convenience of the family. Contributions in his name may be made to Carbon County Friends of Animals, 900 Walnut Ave., Jim Thorpe, Pa. 18229. Arrangements by David J. Stianche Funeral Home, 123 Center St., Jim Thorpe. Online condolences at www.stianchefh.com.

John A. Daniels

John A. Daniels, 56, of West Phillips St., Coaldale, died Friday in Frackville.

He had been employed as a manager at Arby's Restaurant, West Hazleton, for 19 years. Previously, he had been employed for Schillings Plumbing and Heating, Coaldale, from 1972 to 1978.

Born in Manhattan, New York, he was a son of the late Michael and Agnes (Holubek) Daniels.

A member of St. Katherine Drexel Catholic Church, Lansford, he had previously been a member of SS. Cyril and Methodius Catholic Church, Coaldale.

A 1972 graduate of Marian Catholic High School, he earned an associate degree in business from Penn State, Schuylkill Campus.

A member of the First Slovak Catholic Ladies Association, he served as auditor for Branch 417.

Surviving are a brother, Michael Daniels of Boise, ID, and his wife, Kathleen; and two sisters, Sister Barbara Daniels, MSC, of Reading, and Agnes, wife of Dennis Adrian of Scranton.

Service: Mass of Christian Burial, 10 a.m., Monday, St. Katherine Drexel RC Church, Lansford, with the Rev. Kenneth Medve officiating. Interment, SS. Cyril and Methodius Cemetery, Nesquehoning. Call Sunday, 6 to 8 p.m., and Monday, 9 to 9:30 a.m., August M. Gulla Funeral Home, 130 E. Ridge St., Coaldale. fraternal service Sunday ay 7:30 p.m. Memorials in his name may be made to the Missionary Sisters of the Sacred Heart, 2811 Moyers Lane, Reading, PA 19605, or Vasculitis Foundation, P.O. Box 28660, Kansas city, MO 64188. Online registry at www.zrgfuneralhomes.com.

Published in Times News on March 12, 2011

John A. Tomasovich

John A. Tomasovich, 60, of Newfoundland, died Wednesday, March 9 in Newfoundland.

Born in Coaldale, he was a son of Olga (Sachon) Tomasovich of Coaldale and the late John Tomasovich.

Surviving in addition to his mother are four sisters, Justine, wife of Thomas Klementovic of Lansford, Daria Steigerwalt of Hazleton, Alexis, wife of Richard Danchak in Virginia, and Sandra Jones, and her companion, Lenny Stahler, of Tamaqua; and a brother, David Tomasovich, and his wife, Kathleen, of Jim Thorpe.

He was also preceded in death by a sister, Michele Tomasovich.

Service: Interment to be announced at a later date. Arrangements by August M. Gulla Funeral Home, 130 E. Ridge St., Coaldale. Contributions in his name may be made to Devereux Pocono Center, 1547 Mill Creek Rd., Newfoundland, Pa. 18445. Online registry at www.zrgfuneralhomes.com.

Helen Berezniak

Mrs. Helen Berezniak, 79, formerly of Coaldale, entered into eternal rest on Saturday, March 5, in the Mahoning Valley Nursing and Rehabilitation Center, Mahoning Township. She was the widow of John Berezniak, who died June 23, 1977.

She was a sewing machine operator in many garment factories throughout the area, but mostly worked for the former Van Heusen Company, Coaldale, where she was employed for 18 years before retiring in 2000.

Born in Nesquehoning, she was a daughter of the late John and Anna (Goida) Mikovich.

She was a member of St. Mary Russian Orthodox Church, Coaldale, where she belonged to the Ladies Aide Society.

The deceased was also a member of the Coaldale Republican Club.

Surviving are two sons, Dr. Ronald, and his wife, Hilda (Richards), of Parish, Fla., and John, and his wife, Susan (Schlenner), of Severna Park, Md.; a brother, Father Ted, and his wife, JoAnne (Marouchoc), of Emmaus; a sister, Dorothy Macenka of Nesquehoning; six grandchildren, nine great-grandchildren and many nieces and nephews.

Service: Funeral service 11 a.m. Tuesday, March 8, St. Mary Russian Orthodox Church, Coaldale, with the Rev. Daniel Mathewson officiating. Interment, parish cemetery, Summit Hill. Call 9-11 a.m. Tuesday in the church. Contributions in her name may be made to the church, 217 First St., Coaldale, Pa. 18218. Arrangements by Sverchek-Blazosky Funeral Home, 340 E. Bertsch St., Lansford.

Published in Times News on March 7, 2011

Olga Dumas

Mrs. Olga Dumas, 68, of Albuquerque, N.M., formerly of Coaldale, died Thursday, March 3, in her home. She was the wife of George Dumas.

She was a daughter of the late Nicholas and Mary Trubilla.

Surviving in addition to her husband are two sons, Thomas and Ernest, both of Houston, Tex.; a sister Helen, wife of Nicholas Macenka Jr. of Coaldale; and three brothers, John, Nicholas and Michael.

She was also preceded in death by a son Nicholas; and a sister, Ann Parfitt.

Published in Times News on March 7, 2010

Catherine M. McHugh, 64, of Hillside Avenue, Easton, died Thursday in Easton.

Born in Coaldale, she was a daughter of the late Michael J., Jr., and Mary Elizabeth (mcNealis) McHugh.

She was a member of St. Katherine Drexel Catholic Church, Lansford, and graduated from Marian Catholic High School in 1964.

Surviving are two sons, Michael Danchak of Orefield and Mark Danchak of Camp Lejeune, N.C., and his wife, Erica; three daughters, Maureen, wife of Thomas Godly of Easton, Michelle Danchak of Easton and Melissa, wife of William Bisher of Easton; 15 grandchildren; and a niece, April, wife of Steven Krynock of Summit Hill.

She was also preceded in death by a brother, Michael McHugh III.

Service: Mass of Christian Burial 11 a.m., Monday, St. Katherine Drexel RC Church, Lansford, with the Rev. Kenneth Medve officiating. Interment, St. Jerome Parish Cemetery, Tamaqua. Call Sunday, 6-8 p.m., or Monday, 9:30-10:30 a.m., Zizelmann-Roche Funeral Home, 500 E. Broad St., Tamaqua. Memorials may be made to the Carbon Tamaqua Unit ACS, 33 W. Ridge St., Lansford. Online registry at www.zrgfuneral-homes.com.

Published in Times News on February 26, 2011

George M. McCartney Jr.

George M. McCartney Jr., 46, of 1285 57 Dr., Kunkletown, passed away Saturday, Feb. 19, in the Inpatient Hospice Unit of the Lehigh Valley Hospital, Allentown.

He worked in the construction business as a bridge painter and maintenance worker.

Born in Coaldale, he was a son of George M. McCartney Sr. of Coaldale and the late Nancy M. (Moser) McCartney.

He was of the Catholic faith.

Surviving are two sisters, Nancy Huntington of Lehighton, Kathleen (McCartney) Roth of Jim Thorpe; and two daughters, Nicole and Ashlyn McCartney, and a granddaughter, Jazleen Greenlee, all of Kunkletown.

He was also preceded in death by a sister, Maureen McCartney.

Service: Private funeral service and interment at convenience of family. Contributions may be made to the family, 1285 57 Dr., Kunkletown, Pa. 18058. Arrangements by Andrew P. Ovsak Funeral Home, Fourth and Iron streets, Lehighton. Online condolences may be offered at www.ovsakfh.com.

Published in Times News on February 21, 2011

Marie E. (Pavlick) Castagna

Mrs. Marie E. Castagna, 82, of 220 Third St., Coaldale, passed away on Thursday, Feb. 17, in The Summit at Blue Mountain Nursing Home, Lehighton. She was the widow of Ernest J. Castagna, who died Nov. 8, 2010.

She was a Registered Nurse and the Director of Nursing for the former Coaldale State General Hospital, Coaldale, retiring after 30 years, and was also a former instructor at the Sacred Heart School of Nursing, Allentown.

Born in Summit Hill, she was a daughter of the late Joseph and Susan (Mitchalk) Pavlick.

She was a member of St. Katharine Drexel Catholic Church, Lansford.

Surviving are two sons, Carmen, and his wife, Carmel, of New Ringgold, and Ernest Jr. of Coaldale; a daughter-in-law Melba in California; a daughter, Karen Burk of Bethlehem; a sister, Eleanor Bimler of Sharon Hill; and seven grandchildren.

She was also preceded in death by three brothers, Joseph, John "Jack" and Thomas.

Service: Funeral service 9:30 a.m. Monday, Feb. 21, Skrabak-Parambo Funeral Home, 210 E. Bertsch St., Lansford; Mass of Christian Burial 10 a.m., St. Katharine Drexel Catholic Church, Lansford. Interment, Sky-View Memorial Park, Hometown. Call 6-8 p.m. Sunday and 9-9:30 a.m. Monday. Contributions in her name may be made to the American Cancer Soc. Online condolences may be offered at www.parambofh.com.

Published in Times News on February 18, 2011

Helen (Skeerca) Rudner

Mrs. Helen Rudner, 81, of Tamaqua, formerly of Coaldale, died Monday, Dec. 27, in the St. Luke's Miners Memorial Hospital, Coaldale. She was the widow of Frank Joseph Rudner, who died in 1963.

Helen had worked in the kitchen at the Coaldale Hospital.

Born in Coaldale, she was a daughter of the late Joseph and the Theresa (Hermsky) Skeerca.

She was a member of the former St. Mary Catholic Church, Coaldale.

Surviving are two daughters, Theresa Parkhurst and Mary Rose, wife of William Schock, and a son Thomas, all of Tamaqua; five grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.

She was also preceded in death by a son Francis, who died in 1976; two sisters, Anna Ehrie and Rose Smulligan; and four brothers, Tony, Stephen, Basil and Mike.

Service: Mass of Christian Burial 11 a.m. Friday, Dec. 31, SS. Peter and Paul Catholic Church, Tamaqua, with the Rev. William Linkchorst officiating. Call 9:30-10:30 a.m. Friday, E. Franklin Griffiths Funeral Home, 655 E. Broad St., Tamaqua. Online registry and condolences may be signed at www.griffithsfuneralhomes.com.

Published in Times News on December 28, 2010

Anna J. (Novak) Danchak

Mrs. Anna J. Danchak, 91, of Moser Avenue, Coaldale, died Sunday, Dec. 26, in her home. She was the widow of Aften Danchak, who died in 1990.

Prior to retiring, she worked in several garment factories in the Panther Valley and Jim Thorpe areas.

Born in Nesquehoning, she was a daughter of the late Julius and Barbara Novak.

She was a member of St. Mary Russian Orthodox Church, Coaldale.

Surviving are a son Ronald, and his wife, Carol, of Coaldale; a grandson and three great-grandchildren.

She was also preceded in death by a son Dennis, who died in 1985.

She was the last member of her immediate family.

Service: Private funeral service at convenience of family with the Rev. Paul Ropitsky officiating. Interment, St. Mary Russian Orthodox Cemetery, Summit Hill. No calling hours. Online guest registry can be signed at www.zrgfuneralhomes.com.

Published in Times News on December 27, 2010

Anne Marie (Burns) Gallagher

Mrs. Anne Marie Gallagher, 81, of Coaldale, died Monday, Dec. 20, in the Weatherwood Nursing

Home, Weatherly. She was the widow of John Patrick Gallagher, who died in 1982. She had

worked as a home health aide. Born in Pottsville, she was a daughter of the late John and Anna

(Coleman) Burns.

Anne Marie was a graduate of Saint Mary High School. She was a member of the former St. Mary

of the Assumption Catholic Church, Coaldale, and St. Jerome Catholic Church, Tamaqua.

The deceased also belonged to the former St. Mary's Guild and the Art League of Lansford.

Surviving are two daughters, Ann of Coaldale and Patricia, wife of Steve Redmon of Chapel Hill,

N.C.; a son John, and his wife, Anne Cormier, of Douglassville, Pa.; a brother Anthony of Merritt

Island, Fla.; a son-in-law, Wayne Gryzik of Clayton, Del.; a cousin with whom she was raised,

Charles Sharpe of Nesquehoning; six grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. She was also

preceded in death by a daughter, Mary Gryzik, who died in 2001; and a grandson, Brandon

Derrick. Service: Mass of Christian Burial 11 a.m. Wednesday, Dec. 22, St. Jerome Catholic

Church, Tamaqua, with the Rev. James C. Bechtel officiating. Private interment, St. Bertha

CatholiCemetery, Tuscarora. Call 6-8 p.m. Tuesday and 9:30-10:30 a.m. Wednesday, E. Franklin

Griffiths Funeral Home, 655 E. Broad St., Tamaqua.

Published in Times News on December 21, 2010 Email

Rita P. (Futchko) Rickert

Rita P. Rickert, 56, of Weatherly, formerly of Coaldale, died Sunday, Dec. 19, in Weatherly.

She was a licensed practical nurse.

Born in Coaldale, she was a daughter of the late Nicholas and Catherine (Ferryman) Futchko.

Surviving are two sons, Nathan and David, both of Coaldale; a daughter Sarah, wife of Chris Weerts of Santa Monica, Calif.; her companion, Glen "Farmer" Dunbar of Weatherly; two brothers Jack of Amherst, Mass., and Phillip Durling of Tamaqua; and two sisters, Peggy Andel of Coaldale and Kay Ann Anfuso of Bethlehem.

She was also preceded in death by a brother Nicholas.

Service: Funeral service 11 a.m. Thursday, Dec. 23, Zizelmann-Roche Funeral Home, 500 E. Broad St., Tamaqua, with the Rev. Dr. Wayne Benack officiating. Interment, St. Mary Russian Orthodox Cemetery, Summit Hill. Call 10-11 a.m. Thursday.

Published in Times News on December 21, 2010

Mary C. Dorrian

Mrs. Mary Cecelia (Boyle) Dorrian, 73, of Laureldale, Berks County, died Thursday, Nov. 25, in the Reading Hospital. She was the wife of Thomas Joseph Dorrian. They were married 50 years on June 25.

Born in Coaldale, she was a daughter of the late Donald and Grace A. (O'Gorman) Boyle.

She was a 1955 graduate of the former St. Mary's High School, Coaldale.

Mary was a member of Holy Guardian Angels Catholic Church, Hyde Park.

Surviving in addition to her husband are two daughters, Grace A., wife of Kevin McCarthy of Feasterville, and Kathleen S. of Morrisville, both in Bucks County; a brother Joseph, and his wife, Julie (Hutta), of Coaldale; and a granddaughter, Kayleigh D. McCarthy of Feasterville.

She was also preceded in death by a brother Donald and a sister, Grace Ann.

Service: Mass of Christian Burial 10 a.m. Tuesday, Nov. 30, Holy Guardian Angels Catholic Church, 3121 Kutztown Rd., Reading. Call 6:30-8:30 tonight, Walter R. Christ Funeral Home, 3300 Kutztown Rd., Laureldale, and 9:30-10 a.m. Tuesday in the church. Contributions in her name may be made to the St. Jude Children's Hospital, 501 St. Jude Place, Memphia, Tenn. 38105, or www.stjude.org. Online condolences can be offered at www.christfuneralhome.com.

Published in Times News on November 29, 2010

Mary C. Blasko

Mrs. Mary C. (Balish) Blasko, 94, of Harrisburg, died Saturday, Nov. 6, in her home.

She is reunited today in heaven with her dear husband, Stephen J. Blasko, her mother, father, brother and sisters.

Mary was faithful to church, family, home and friends.

Mom attended SS. Cyril & Methodious School and Church, the church of her sacraments and marriage, in Coaldale.Mom moved to Harrisburg with Dad in 1957.

She was a member and faithful housekeeper at Sacred Heart of Jesus Catholic Church, Harrisburg, and currently was a member of the Cathedral Parish of St. Patrick.

In her younger years, she was an expert seamstress, working for Tony Wargo, Kiddie Kloes of Coaldale and Lansford, and Cameron Dress Co., Harrisburg.

Surviving are a son, Stephen M., and his wife, Janie, of Mechanicsburg; a daughter, Mary C., wife of Frank Moles of Margate, N.J.; her loving grandchildren, Matthew P. Moles, and his wife, Theresa, of Atco, N.J., Paul T. Moles, and his wife, Liza, of Chicago, Ill., Francine Cocchia of Devon, Lynn Moles of Cherry Hill, N.J., and Christine and Bill Kissel of Harrisburg; her loving niece, Rose Ann Weaver, and her husband, Bill, of Coaldale; her nephew, Bill Morana, and his wife, Patty, of Coaldale; her great-grandchildren, Peter, Lisa, Laura, Pierce, Dean, Matthew, Madeliene, Evan Jack, Katie, Allison, Nathan and Kayla; her special friend, John Anthony; friends from church and friends from Coaldale, Harrisburg and New Jersey.

Service: A Mass of Christian Burial was celebrated this morning in St. Patrick Cathedral, Harrisburg, with Rev. Msgr. William M. Richardson as celebrant. Interment followed in the Indiantown Gap National Cemetery, Annville. Contributions in her name may be made in the form of Mass cards or contributions to the Hospice of Central Pa., 1320 Linglestown Rd., Harrisburg, Pa. 17110. May she rest in peace. Arrangements by Wiedeman Funeral Home, 357 S. Second St., Steelton. www.wiedemanfuneralhome.com.

Published in Times News on November 10, 2010

Ernest J. Castagna Sr. |

Ernest J. "Fishy" Castagna Sr., 81, of 220 Third St., Coaldale, died Monday, Nov. 8. He was the husband of Marie E. (Pavlick) Castagna. They celebrated their 51st wedding anniversary on Sept. 12.

He worked for the L.C.& N. Mine No. 8, and the Silberline Manufacturing Co., Lansford, and also had owned the Panther Valley Bus Lines for many years.

Born in Coaldale, he was a son of the late Carmine and Mary (Laskos) Castagna.

He was a member of St. Katharine Drexel Catholic Church, Lansford.

Surviving in addition to his widow are two sons, Carmen, and his wife, Carmel, of New Ringgold, and Ernest Jr. of Coaldale, and daughter-in-law, Melba, in California; a daughter, Karen Burk of Bethlehem; a brother Bart of Tamaqua; three sisters, Mary Lou Carli of Vineland, N.J., Rose Marie Hitchens of Ridley Park, Pa., and Dorothy Fojtik of Racine, Wis.; and seven grandchildren.

Service: Funeral service 12:30 p.m. Thursday, Nov. 11, Skrabak-Parambo Funeral Home, 210 E. Bertsch St., Lansford; Mass of Christian Burial 1 p.m., St. Katharine Drexel Catholic Church, Lansford. Interment, Sky-View Memorial Park, Hometown. Call 6-8 p.m. Wednesday and 11:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Thursday. Contributions in his name may be made to the American Cancer Soc. Online condolences can be offered at www.parambofh.com.

Published in Times News on November 9, 2010

Rev. John J. Pavlosky |

The Rev. John J. Pavlosky, 65, pastor emeritus of SS. Cyril and Methodius, St. John the Baptist, and St Mary of the Assumption Catholic churches, Coaldale, died Wednesday, Oct. 27.

He passed away in the Broad Mountain Manor, Frackville.

Born in Frackville, he was a son of the late Jacob and Anna Mae (Brenkach) Pavlosky.He was an alter server for several years in his home parish, St. Ann Catholic Church, Frackville, and remained a devout member there. He was active in parish activities even through his days in the seminary, memories he cherished throughout his life.

As a high school student, he may be remembered as the accordion player for the "Cavalier's Orchestra," which was popular in the area in the early 1960s.

He is survived by cousins.

Father Pavlosky attended St. Joseph Parochial School, Frackville, and Immaculate Heart High School, Fountain Springs. He attended St. Mary College and studied for the priesthood at SS. Cyril and Methodius Seminary, Orchard Lake, Mich.

He was ordained to the priesthood on March 27, 1971, by The Most Rev. Joseph McShea at the Cathedral of St. Catharine of Sienna, Allentown.

Father Pavlosky's first assignment was parochial vicar, Sacred Heart Church, Palmerton, followed by parochial vicar, St. Mary Church, Reading; professor, Reading Central Catholic High School, and parochial vicar, St. Joseph Church, Reading; professor, Nativity B.V.M. High School, Pottsville, and pastoral assignment was at St. Anthony of Padua Church, Cumbola; pastor, St. Michael Church, Northampton; and the pastor of the Coaldale churches.

During the course of his ministry, Father Pavlosky held the following auxiliary diocesan assignments: chaplain, Catholic Scouting, and regional director, Holy Name Society, East Schuylkill County.

Upon retirement, he was named pastor emeritus of the Coaldale churches.

Service: Mass of Christian Burial 11 a.m. Wednesday, Nov. 3, St. Ann Church, 97 N. Line St., Frackville, with His Excellency, the Most Rev. John. O. Barres, Bishop of Allentown, presiding. The Rev. Msgr. James J. Reichert, pastor, St. Rocco Church, Martins Creek, will be the homilist. Vigil service 7:30 p.m. Tuesday, Nov. 2, St. Ann Church, with the Rev. Msgr. Edward J. O'Connor, Dean of Schuylkill Deanery, presiding. The homilist will be Rev. Edward J. Essig, pastor, Annunciation B.V.M. Church and St. Ann Church, Frackville. Call 6-9 p.m. Tuesday and 9-11 a.m. Wednesday in the church. Interment will be with his parents in St. Michael Ukrainian Catholic Cemetery, Englewood, Frackville.

Father John preferred you remember him in your prayers or, if necessary, to make a contribution in his name to the Catholic church or charity of your choice. Arrangements by Thomas M. Sullivan Funeral Home, Frackville. To sign the guest book, leave personal condolences and for additional information, visit www.thomasmsullivanfuneralhome.com.

Published in Times News on October 29, 2010

Mary C. Yelsh

Mrs. Mary C. (Comisac) Yelsh, age 97, of Moscow, Pa., died Thursday, Oct. 7, at the Jewish Home of North East Pennsylvania in Scranton.

Mary, worked in various Textile companies until retiring, and was a member of St. Mary's Orthodox Church of Coaldale. She was active in the Ladies Aide Society, and Good Samaritans of the church.

Born in Tamaqua R. 3, she was the daughter of the late Michael and the Rose (Rosko) Comisac.

She is survived by her daughter, Mrs. Marion (Yelsh) Pickenheim wife of Ronald A. of Moscow, Pa., with whom she resided; a son, William Yelsh, and his wife Lillian of Middletown, DE.; four grandchildren; four great-grandchildren; many nieces and nephews.

She was preceded in death by her husband, Andrew Yelsh; brother's, Michael, John, and Stephen Comisac; and sister Mrs. Ann Kononchuk on Feb. 02, 2007.

Services: Arrangements are being handled by E. Franklin Griffiths Funeral Home, Inc., 655 East Broad Street Tamaqua. The family will receive friends from 9 to 11 a.m. Monday, October 11, at St. Mary's Orthodox Church 217 First Street Coaldale. Funeral service will be at St. Mary's Orthodox Church at 11 a.m. Monday, October 11, the Very Reverend Paul Ropitsky officiating. Interment at Sky View Memorial Park in Tamaqua. Mass cards and memorials to the church.

Thomas S. Matula

Thomas S. Matula Sr., 81, of 112 E. High St., Coaldale died on September 10, 2010 at OSF St. Anthony Medical Center in Rockford, IL. He was the husband of the late Margaret (Janicek) Matula who died in November of 2000. Born in Coaldale, he was the son of the late Martin and Johanna (Petrash) Matula. He worked for PPL Electric as a Linesman for many years. Thomas served in the U.S. Army during the Korean Conflict. He was a member of the Lansford Amvets and Lansford American Legion. He was a member of Ss. Peter & Paul Roman Catholic Church in Tamaqua and former member of Ss. Cyril & Methodist Catholic Church in Coaldale. Surviving is a son Thomas Matula and his wife Carol of Nesquehoning; Daughter, Peg Pietruch and her husband Walter of Belvidere, IL; Sister, Jennie Serina of Lansford; Five Grandchildren, Taylor Pietruch, Morgan Pietruch, Tim Matula, Mat Matula, and Jim Matula; Great-Grandchild, Olivia. He was preceded in death by three Brothers, Joe, John and Martin; a sister, Anna. Funeral Service is on Thursday, Sept. 16, 2010 at 9:15 AM from the Thomas J. Parambo Funeral Home, 54 W. Fell St., Summit Hill followed by a Mass of Christian Burial at 10:00 AM from St. Peter & Paul Roman Catholic Church, Tamaqua. Military Interment will follow at Sky-View Memorial Park, Hometown. Calling Hours are Wednesday Evening from 6:00 to 8:00 PM and Thursday morning from 8:45 to 9:15 AM at the funeral home. Wake Service at 6:45 PM and Lansford V.F.W. Service at 7:30 PM on Wednesday evening. Arrangements are being handled by the Thomas J. Parambo Funeral Home of Summit Hill. Online Condolences may be signed at www.parambofh.com.

Henry E. Collier |

Henry Eugene Collier, 78, of Indianapolis, Ind., formerly of Coaldale, died Friday, Aug. 27, 2010. He was the husband of the late Anne Marie (Miller) Collier.

Born in Coaldale, he was a son of the late James and Dorothy (McGorry) Collier.

Known to his friends as "Kipper," he was a mail carrier for the U.S. Postal Service for more than 30 years before retiring in 1988.

He was a member of the former St. Mary Catholic Church, Coaldale, the American Legion, Knights of Columbus and the National Association of Letter Carriers.

Henry was an Air Force veteran.

Surviving are three sons, Gene of Pittsburgh, Chris of Ashburn, Va., and Patrick of Indianapolis; two brothers, Jimmy of Ocean City, N.J., and Francis in Florida; and two grandsons, Sean and Andy Collier of Pittsburgh.

He was also preceded in death by two brothers, Danny and Tommy.

Service: A memorial service was held today in the Leppert Mortuary, Nora Chapel, Indianapolis. Sign guestbook and/or share story about Henry by visiting www.leppertmortuary.com. Contributions in his name may be made to Project Home Indy at www.projecthomeindy.org.

Mary R. (Delay) Eltringham

Mary R. Eltringham, 98, formerly of E. Elm St., Tamaqua, died Wednesday, Aug. 4, 2010, in Orwigsburg. She was the wife of the late Carl L. Eltringham, who died in 1979.

Prior to retiring, she had been employed by the former Bell Telephone Company.

Born in Coaldale, she was a daughter of the late Jeremiah and Mary (Gallagher) Delay.

She was a graduate of the former St. Mary's High School, Coaldale.

A member of St. Jerome's Catholic Church, Tamaqua, she was a former member of the Tamaqua Senior Citizens.

Surviving are two sons, Carl E. Eltringham, Townson, Md., and Thomas Eltringham, and his wife, Arlene, Allentown; a daughter, Donna, wife of Joseph Wye, of West Penn Township; two grandchildren, Katherine and John Thomas Eltringham; two step-grandchildren, Lauren Gerchufsky and Marissa Loht; and two sisters, Rita Jones, Baltimore, Md., and Anna Kranik, Bethlehem.

She was also preceded in death by three brothers, Edward, Thomas and William Delay; and seven sisters, Geraldine Burns, Helen Miller, Katherine Wall, Grace Evans, Jean Rhorer, Alice Vrabel and Theresa Harth.

Service: Mass of Christian Burial, 11 a.m., Saturday, St. Jerome's Catholic Church, Tamaqua, with the Rev. James Bechtel officiating. Interment, Sky-View Memorial Park, Hometown. Call Saturday, 9:30 - 10:30 a.m., Zizelmann-Roche Funeral Home, 500 E. Broad St., Tamaqua. Contributions in her name may be made to the church. Online registry at www.zrgfuneralhomes.com.

Published in Times News on August 5, 2010

Anna B. (Schilling) Karawulan

Mrs. Anna Bridget Karawulan, 89, a resident of the Hometown Nursing Center, Hometown, was brought into Heaven by the angels on Wednesday, July 28. She was the widow of Nicholas Karawulan.

A lifelong resident of Coaldale, she was a daughter of the late Cletus and Catherine (Gildea) Schilling.

A member of St. Katherine Drexel Catholic Church, Lansford, she was a former member of St. Mary of the Assumption Catholic Church, Coaldale.

The deceased was a graduate of the former St. Mary High School, Coaldale.

Surviving are a son Dennis of Coaldale; a sister, Mary Rajnic of Langhorne; cousins and lifelong friends, Jack O'Donnell of Langhorne and Kathleen Gallagher in Maryland; a brother-in-law, Theodore Haldeman of Coaldale; a niece, Mary Hnat; and other nieces, nephews, great-nieces, great-nephews and cousins.

She was also preceded in death by two sisters, Catherine Haldeman and Theresa Rickert; and two brothers, John and Thomas Schilling.

Services: Mass of Christian Burial 11 a.m. Monday, Aug. 2, St. Katherine Drexel Catholic Church, Lansford, with the Rev. Kenneth Medve officiating. Call 10-11 a.m. Monday in the church. Arrangements by August M. Gulla Funeral Home, 130 E. Ridge St., Coaldale. Contributions in her name may be made to the church. Sign online registry at www.zrgfuneralhomes.com.

Published in Times News on July 30, 2010

Mary (Piech) Goidich

Mrs. Mary Goidich, 91, entered into eternal rest Tuesday, July 27, in the Hometown Nursing and Rehabilitation Center, Hometown. She was the widow of Andrew Goidich, who passed away on Nov. 13, 1985.

She was a sewing machine operator for the former Wargo Manufacturing Company, Coaldale.

Born in Coaldale, she was a daughter of the late Afton and Julia (Lenio) Piech.

She was a member of St. John Byzantine Catholic Church, Lansford, Rosary Society and Ladies Guild of the church and the Golden Agers and the Senior Citizen's Club, both of Tamaqua.

Surviving are a brother Michael, and his wife, Anna, of Brighton, Mich.; a sister, Anna Melnick of Coaldale; and many nieces and nephews.

Service: Panachida service 10 a.m. Friday, July 30, Sverchek-Blazosky Funeral Home, 340 E. Bertsch St., Lansford; Divine Liturgy 10:30 a.m., St. John Byzantine Catholic Church, Lansford, with the Rev. Ronald J. Hatton officiating. Interment, Sky-View Memorial Park, Hometown. Call 9-10 a.m. Friday.

Blanche A.(Stalma) Suda

Blanche A. Suda, 82, of E. High St., Coaldale, died on Saturday, July 24, 2010, in Bethlehem. She was the widow of Peter Suda, who died in 1982.

Born in Coaldale, she was a daughter of the late John and Josephine (Costello) Stalma, and step-daughter of the late Andrew Bialis.

She was employed as a registered nurse and worked at the former Coaldale State General Hospital and later performed private duty nursing.

She was a member of Ss. Peter and Paul Catholic Church, Tamaqua.

She was a Coaldale election poll worker and belonged to the Polish National Alliance.

Surviving are daughters Sally Ann Suda, Coaldale, Mary Beth Suda, Catasauqua, and Nancy, wife of Richard Van Horn, Nesquehoning; a son, Theodore P. Suda, and his wife, Donna, Fruit Land Park, Fla.; a sister, Mary Nevenglosky, Hometown; 11 grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.

She was also preceded in death by a sister, Jennie Shanosky.

Service: Mass of Christian Burial at 10 a.m. on Thursday in Ss. Peter and Paul Catholic Church, Tamaqua, with the Rev. William Linkchorst officiating. Interment, Sky-View Memorial Park, Hometown, Tamaqua R.2. Call Wednesday, 6-8 p.m. and Thursday, 8:30-9:30 a.m. at the August M. Gulla Funeral Home, 130 E. Ridge St., Coaldale. Contributions in her name may be made to the Carbon Tamaqua Unit, American Cancer Society, 33 W. Ridge St., Lansford, Pa. 18232. Online guest registry: www.zrgfuneralhomes.com.

Kenneth J. Hill |

Kenneth J. Hill, 52, of Coaldale, died Sunday, July 11, in his home.

He was formerly employed by ASH Resources, Gangloff Brothers, as a landscaper.

He was a son of the late Edward M. and Eva M. (Kromer) Hill, and was an Army veteran.

Surviving are four brothers, William Hill, and his wife, Kathryn, Elwood Kromer, and his wife, Vickie, and Edward Hill, and his wife, Carol, all of Lehighton, and LeRoy E. Kromer, and his wife, Regina, of Andreas; a sister Ozella of White Bear, Summit Hill; and many nieces and nephews.

He was also preceded in death by a brother, Lynford D. Kromer.

Service: Private funeral service, Robert S. Nester Funeral Home, 2066 W. Penn Pike, New Ringgold. Interment, Indiantown Gap National Cemetery, Annville, Pa. Sign online registry and condolences at www.griffithsfuneralhomes.com.

Dorothy M. Dover |

Mrs. Dorothy Margaret Dover, 87, of Bella Vista, Ark., was called to heaven on Saturday, June 19, in the Concordia Care Center, Bella Vista.

She was a daughter of the late John and Eva (Ziegler) Barron.

Born in Coaldale, she lived several years in Pineville, Mo., before moving to Bella Vista eight years ago.Dorothy married the love of her life, Daniel H. Dover, on Aug. 22, 1945, in Tamaqua, and to this union six children were born. He died Feb. 23, 1992.

She was the president of the Senior Citizens organization in Coaldale, Pennsylvania for several years.

Dorothy enjoyed spending time with her family and friends.

Surviving are three sons, John of Trenton, Mo., and Daniel and Carl Dover, and Linda, all of Castle, Okla.; three daughters, Edie, wife of Christopher Hill of Santee, Calif., Betty, wife of Troy Hamilton of Pineville, and Chris, wife of Mark Nelson of Decatur, Ark.; a sister-in-law, Betty Temple of Columbus, Ohio; 16 grandchildren, 20 great-grandchildren and many other family, friends and neighbors who will dearly miss Dorothy.

She was also preceded in death by two brothers, Joe and John; and two sisters, Helen Price and Elizabeth.

A graveside funeral service was held this morning at the Fayetteville National Cemetery in Fayetteville, Ark., with the Rev. Laura Whitaker officiating. Dan Dover, Carl Dover, Nathan Dover, Troy Hamilton Jr., Daniel Brown and Mitchell Nelson honored Dorothy's life by serving as pallbearers. Honorary pallbearers were John Dover, Troy Hamilton Sr., Mark Nelson, Christopher Hill, Jerod Duncan and Cory Nelson.

Memorial contributions in loving memory of Dorothy may be given to the Volunteer Fund of Concordia, c/o the Walker-Dowd Funeral Home, Anderson, Mo.

Online condolences can be offered at www.walker-dowd.com.

Published in Times News on June 24, 2010

Orvel L. Reed |

Orvel L. Reed, 69, of Moser Ave., Coaldale, died Saturday, June 21, 2010, in St. Luke's Miners Memorial Hospital, Coaldale.

Born in New Port, Tenn., he was the son of the late Orvel and Violet (Essler) Reed.

He had last been employed at Remy Pallet, Lehighton.

He was a member of numerous veteran organizations including the Disabled American Veterans.

He was a veteran of the U.S. Marine Corps, serving in Vietnam.

Surviving are a son, Orvel L. Reed Jr., Williamstown, N.J., sisters, Brenda Reed, Coaldale, and Rina and Robin Reed, both of Clementon, N.J.

Service: Friends will be received on Tuesday, from 10-11 a.m. at the August M. Gulla Funeral Home, 130 E. Ridge St., Coaldale. Interment, will be at Indiantown Gap National Cemetery, Annville. Online condolences at: www.zrgfuneralhomes.com. Arrangements by the Gulla Funeral Home.

Loretta S. Laigon

Mrs. Loretta S. Laigon, 85, of East Ridge Street, Coaldale, died Wednesday, May 12, in Salisbury Township. She was the widow of Dr. Eugene Laigon Sr., who died in July, 2000. The couple had been married 54 years at that time.

Prior to retiring, she was a registered nurse in Saranac, N.Y., and New York City, N.Y.

Born in Shenandoah, she was a daughter of the late Victor and Bridget Sobolewski.

She was a member of SS. Peter and Paul Catholic Church, Tamaqua.

She was a graduate of the former St. Casimir High School, Shenandoah, and a 1946 graduate of the Philadelphia General Hospital School of Nursing.

The deceased was a member of the Pennsyvlania Nursing Association.

Surviving are a son, Eugene E., Jr., of Philadelphia; a sister, Eleanor Sadowski of Shenandoah; four nephews, Robert Sadowski and Leonard, Kenneth and Victor Sobolewski; and a grandniece Lisa.

Service: Mass of Christian Burial 11 a.m. Wednesday, May 19, SS. Peter and Paul Catholic Church, Tamaqua, with the Rev. William Linkchorst officiating. Interment, Sky-View Memorial Park, Hometown. Call 6-8 p.m. Tuesday, 10-10:30 a.m. Wednesday, August M. Gulla Funeral Home, 130 E. Ridge St., Coaldale. Sign online registry at www.zrgfuneralhomes.com.

Robert E. Kovac

Robert E. Kovac, 63, of Center Street, Jim Thorpe, died Wednesday, April 21, in the St. Luke's Hospice House, Bethlehem. He was the husband of the late Carol A. (Snyder) Kovac, who died 2008.

He was retired from Jim Thorpe Area High School, where he taught English from 1972-2005 and was a past English Department chairman, the Student Council advisor, a class advisor and a basketball coach.

Born in Coaldale, he was a son of the late Paul and Lucy (Sebaron) Kovac.

He was a graduate of Marian High School and East Stroudsburg University.

Kovac was a current member of the Jim Thorpe School Board.

He was a co-founder of the S.A.D.D. Organization (Students Against Drunk Drivers) in Jim Thorpe.

Surviving are a son, Robert E. "Robbie" Jr., and his wife, Lauren K. (Reeser), and two granddaughters, Kayley and Payton Kovac.

He was also predeceased by two brothers, Paul and Greg.

Service: Funeral service 11 a.m. Saturday, April 24, Edward F. Melber Funeral Home, 524 Center St., Jim Thorpe, with the Rev. Mike Netznik officiating. Interment, Sky-View Memorial Park, Hometown. Call 6-8 p.m. Friday and 10-11 a.m. Saturday. Contributions in his name may be made to the Jim Thorpe High School Student Council, 1 Olympian Way, Jim Thorpe, Pa. 18229.

Published in Times News on April 22, 2010

Bobby was born and raised in Coaldale. He went to St Cyril's grade school and Marian High. Class of 1964

Harry Bialis Jr.

Harry Bialis Jr., 83, of Fourth Street, Coaldale, died Saturday in Palmerton.

Prior to retiring, he had been employed by Stanley-Vidmar, Allentown, as a spot welder.

Born in Coaldale, he was a son of the late Harry and Anna (Tible) Bialis.

He served with the U.S. Navy during World War II and the U.S. Army during the Korean War.

He was a member of St. Mary's Russian Orthodox Church, Coaldale; and a member of the Veterans of Foreign Wars Post, Coaldale.

Surviving are a sister, Mary, wife of Barry Billica of Fort Collins, Col.; numerous nieces and nephews.

He was also preceded in death by a sister, Esther Sebasovich; and five brothers, John, Michael, Andrew, Mitro and William.

Service: 10 a.m., Wednesday, St. Mary's Russian Orthodox Church, Coaldale, with the Rev. Daniel Mathewson officiating. Interment, parish cemetery, Summit Hill. Call 9-10 a.m. Wednesday, at the church. Contributions in his name may be made to the church. Arrangements by the August M. Gulla Funeral Home, 130 E. Ridge St., Coaldale. Online registry at www.zrgfuneralhomes.com.

Published in Times News on March 1, 2010

Linda B. Adamitis

Mrs. Linda Burnetta Adamitis, 84, of West Ruddle Street, Coaldale, died Monday, Feb. 22, in Mahoning Valley. She was the widow of Basil Adamitis, who died in 1990.

Born in Coaldale, she was a daughter of the late Guy and Kathleen (Mantz) Gerber.

She was a member of First Congregational Church, Coaldale.

Surviving are a daughter, Linda Rose Adamitis and a son, Joseph Hollan, and his wife, Evelyn, both of Tamaqua; a sister Nola, wife of Al Carpenter of Hacketstown, N.J.; 10 grandchildren, including three she helped rear, Nina Keer Bonetsky, Christopher C. Keer and Matthew B. Keer; and 14 great grandchildren, including two she helped rear, Marissa Bonetsky and John C. Bonetsky.

She was also preceded in death by a daughter, Sharon Zonca; and a brother, Harold Gerber.

Services: Funeral service 11 a.m. Wednesday, Feb. 24, August M. Gulla Funeral Home, 130 E. Ridge St., Coaldale, with the Rev. Dr. Wayne Benack officiating. Interment, Sky-View Memorial Park, Hometown. Call 10-11 a.m. Wednesday. Online registry at zrgfuneralhomes.com.

Published in Times News on February 23, 2010

James C. McNealis

James C. "Poppy" McNealis, 84, of Jim Thorpe, formerly of McAdoo, entered into eternal rest surrounded by his loving family on Thursday, Feb. 4, in hospice care at the St. Luke's Miners Memorial Geriatric Center, Coaldale. After a lengthy illness and compassionate care by members of his family and St. Luke's Hospice, he completed his journey to everlasting life, just as God promised.

Born in Seek, he was a son of the late James and Mary McNealis.

After attending Coaldale schools, and working in the Panther Valley area, he served in the U.S. Navy in World War II in the South Pacific.He married Marian Ritz in 1950, and worked at the former Bundy Tubing Co., Hometown, until his retirement in December, 1980.

James was a 4th Degree Knight in the Damian Council, Knights of Columbus; a member of the Dolan-Jones-Martino American Legion Post 534, Jim Thorpe; a member of the Holy Name Society, lector and Eucharistic Minister at St. Patrick Church, McAdoo; and a Eucharistic Minister and RCIA instructor at Immaculate Conception Catholic Church, Jim Thorpe.

Mr. McNealis' favorite past-time was being everyone's "Poppy," a name given to him by his oldest granddaughter Shannon. Poppy had many grandchildren: Shannon, Butchie, Patrick, Amanda, Richard, Jenyne, Jerome, Dominick, Damian, Dean, Natalia, David, Desirea, Daniel, Anthony and Allie; and great-grandchildren: Mackenzie, Macayla, Bowden and Conlan, who enjoyed and cherished their time with him and will miss him dearly.

Jim was preceded in death by his wife, Marian; a brother, Jerome McNealis; and three sisters, Mary McHugh, Rita Firkal and Rose Watkins.

He is survived by his wife, Eleanor McNealis, of Jim Thorpe, to whom he was married for 15 years; a daughter, Donna Hisney, and her husband, John, of McAdoo; a son, Gary McNealis, and his wife, Graceanne, of Mountaintop; three daughters, Eleanor Rowe, and her husband, Richard, Geralyn Scarpati, and her husband, Jerome, and Jeanette Richards, and her husband, Ralph, and a son, Francis Rossino, and his wife, Marissa, all of Jim Thorpe; a son, Daniel Rossino, and his wife, Julie, of Bowmanstown; a sister, Sarah Ritz of Brookhaven; and many nieces and nephews.

Service: Mass of Christian Burial 10 a.m. Monday, Feb. 8, Immaculate Conception Catholic Church, Jim Thorpe, with the Rev. James Ward as the celebrant and the Rev. Eugene Ritz as the concelebrant. Interment, St. Patrick Catholic Cemetery, McAdoo. Call 7-9 p.m. Sunday and 9-10 a.m. Monday in the church. The family is kindly asking that friends and family respect the wishes of James and send memorial contributions to the St. Luke's Hospice, Lehighton, Pa. 18235, or to Marian Catholic High School, 166 Marian Ave., Tamaqua, Pa. 18252. Arrangements by Damiano Funeral Home, McAdoo.

Published in Times News on February 5, 2010

Leonard K. Zellner

Leonard K. Zellner, 61, of 117 E. Howard Ave., Coaldale, died Sunday, Jan. 24, in the St. Luke's Miners Memorial Hospital, Coaldale. He was the husband of Laura Lee "Pixie" (Flyzik) Zellner. They observed their 34th wedding anniversary last October.

He last worked for Trans Western Polymers, Hometown, and previously was employed by Bethlehem Mines, Coaldale.

Born in Lehighton, he was a son of the late Charles and Anna (Wagner) Zellner.

He was a member of the Forst Congregational Church, Coaldale.

Zellner was an Army veteran of the Vietnam War, having served from 1966-69. He was a Purple Heart Medal recipient.

The deceased was a member of the board of directors of the CHOSE recreational organization, Coaldale, and belonged to the Ontelaunee Rod and Gun Club and Fishing Club, the Moss Glen Rod and Gun Club and American Legion Post 314, Lehighton, and its Last Man's Club.

Surviving in addition to his widow are a son Ronald, and his wife, Rena, of Lehighton; four sisters, Sara Flyzik of Lehighton, Patricia, wife of Ronald Wieghorst in Florida, Linda Green of Freeland and Karen, wife of Curtis Friebolin of Allentown; and nieces, nephews, great-nieces and great-nephews.

Service: Funeral service 7 p.m. Wednesday, Jan. 27, Thomas J. Parambo Funeral Home, 54 W. Fell St., Summit Hill, with the Rev. Dr. Wayne Benack officiating. Interment at convenience of family. Call 5-7 p.m. Wednesday.

Julia Yurchak

Julia Yurchak, 96, of 114 First St., Coaldale, Pa., entered into eternal rest January 15, 2010, in St. Luke's Miners Memorial Hospital, Coaldale. She was the wife of the late Andrew Yurchak who passed away July 14, 2000.

Born in Frackville, she was the daughter of the late Metro and Kathryn Shaker. She had been living in Coaldale for the past 75 years. She was a member of St. Mary's Russian Orthodox Church, where she was a member of the Church Council and a past president of the Ladies Aid Society.

Julia loved working with ceramics and gardening in her spare time.

Surviving are sons, Ronald and his wife, Marie (Lorchak) of Tamaqua, Pa., Andrew Jr. of Hampton, New York, and Serjei and his wife, Joanne (Yamas) of Media, Pa.; sister, Margaret of Coldwell, N.J. and a step-sister, Jenny Parsells of Harrison, N.J.; a step-brother Melvan Mistichan of Frackville, Pa.; four grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.

She was also preceded in death by four brothers and three sisters.

Services: Funeral services will be held 11 a.m. Tuesday, January 19, 2010, at St. Mary's Russian Orthodox Church, 217 First St., Coaldale, Pa., with the Rev. Daniel Mathewson officiating. Graveside services will be held in the Parish Cemetery in Summit Hill. Call 9:30 a.m. Tuesday until time of services in the church. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to St. Mary's Russian Orthodox Church. Funeral arrangements have been entrusted to the Sverchek-Blazosky Funeral Home, 340 E. Bertsch St., Lansford, Pa.

Dolores R. Lomanto-Kehley

Dolores R. "Cookie" Lomanto-Kehley, 66, of East Street, Coaldale, died Sunday in Coaldale. She was the wife of Clark D. Kehley Sr.

Born in Greenwich Village, N.Y., she was a daughter of the late Andrew and Helen (Caprio) Del-Olio.

A veteran of the U.S. Army, she served during the Vietnam War.

She was a member of First United Methodist Church, Tamaqua.

A graduate of St. Alphonsus School in New York, she attended New York University and was a volunteer with the American Cancer Society.

Surviving, in addition to her husband, are two daughters, Michelle, wife of Tom Serina of Lansford, and Elena, wife of William Hartranft of Nesquehoning; a son, Clark D., Jr., of Steelton; six brothers and two sisters; and four grandchildren.

The Zizelmann-Roche Funeral Home, 500 E. Broad St., Tamaqua, is in charge of arrangements.

Linda Faye (Richards) Huynh

Mrs. Linda Faye Huynh, 62, of East High Street, Coaldale, died Monday, Dec. 28, in a vehicle accident at Normal Square, Mahoning Township. She was the wife of George Van Huynh.

She was a social worker for the St. Luke Hospice in Carbon County.

Born in Coaldale, she was a daughther of Norman Richards of Lecanto, Fla., and the late Lois (Chase) Richards.

She was a member of the First Congregational Church, Coaldale, where she was a member and past president of the Women's Class, a Sunday school teacher, Youth Group advisor, co-coordinator of the Kid's Club, choir member, Outreach Committee member and co-coordinator of the Jesus Fest.

The deceased was a past member of the Panther Valley Women's Club, and was instrumental in starting the children Ryan's Tree for the St. Luke Hospice.

She was a 1965 graduate of Panther Valley High School and a 1977 graduate of the Philadelphia College of Bible, where she earned a bachelor of science degree in Bible and social work.

Surviving in addition to her husband and father are a son, George Grant Huynh, at home; a daughter, Leah Huynh of Tamaqua; a brother Norman, and his wife, Linda, of Jim Thorpe; and three sisters, Hilda, wife of Dr. Ronald Berezniak of Parish, Fla., Lois of Coaldale and Joan, wife of Joseph Oliver of Coaldale.

Service: Funeral service 1 p.m. Thursday, Dec. 31, First Congregational Church, Coaldale, with the Rev. Wayne Benack officiating. Interment, Sky-View Memorial Park, Hometown. Call noon-1 p.m. Thursday. Arrangements by August M. Gulla Funeral Home, 130 E. Ridge St., Coaldale. Onlline guest registry can be signed at www.zrgfuneralhomes.com.

Published in Times News on December 29, 2009

Frank S. Liska, 84, of Fords, N.J., formerly of Coaldale, died Tuesday, Dec. 1, in the Lenox Hill Hospital, New York. He was the husband of the late Louise Liska, who died in 1998.

Prior to retiring, he was a member of the maintenance staff of the FMC Corporation, Carteret, N.J.

He was a Navy veteran of Word War II and a member of Our Lady of Peace Church, Fords.

He loved gardening.

Surviving are two sons, Francis X., and his wife, Pamela Scanlon, of the Bronx, N.Y., and Gregory S. of Loganville, Ga.; two daughters, Germaine L.. Lytle, wife of Steven J. Reader of Edison, N.J., and Theresa A. Liska, and her husband, Garth Holt, of Clark, N.J.; and four grandchildren.

Service: Funeral Liturgy 10 a.m. Friday, Dec. 4, Our Lady of Peace Church, Fords, N.J. Interment 11:30 a.m. Saturday, Dec. 5, St. Jerome Cemetery, Tamaqua. Call 10:45-11:15 a.m. Saturday, Zizelmann-Roche Funeral Home, 500 E. Broad St., Tamaqua. Online registry at zrgfuneralhomes.com.

Published in Times News on December 3, 2009

William E. Rickert

William E. 'Bud" Rickert, 82, of East Howard Avenue, Coaldale, died Saturday in Coaldale. He was the husband of Therese (Schilling) Ricket.

Employed as a janitor at Marian Catholic High School, Hometown, he had previously been employed at the former Bundy Tubing, Hometown.

Born in Palmerton, he was a son of the late Earl and Margaret (Waters) Rickert.

A veteran of World WarII, he served in the U.S. Navy.

A member of SS. Peter and Paul Catholic Church, Tamaqua; he was a long time member of the former St. Mary of the Assumption Catholic Church, Coaldale.

A graduate of the former Summit Hill High School, he was a member of the Coaldale American Legion.

Surviving, in addition to his wife, are five sons, Daniel of Coaldale, Cletus and his wife, Cindy, of Norristown, James and his wife, Renae of Lansford, John and his wife Tracey of Lansford, Tom and his wife Susan of Coaldale and Bill and his wife Donna of Leesport; a daughter, Catherine, wife of Larry Fritzinger of Coaldale; a sister, Ruthann Schaare of East Stroudsburg; 15 grandchildren; and four great grandchildren.

Services: Mass of Christian Burial, 9:30 a.m., Tuesday, SS. Peter and Paul Catholic Church, Tamaqua, with the Rev. William Linkchorst officiating. Private interment at the convenience of the family. Call Monday, 6 - 8 p.m. or Tuesday, 8-9 p.m., August M. Gulla Funeral Home, 130 E. Ridge St., Coaldale. Wake service 7 p.m. Monday. Online registry at zrgfuneralhomes.com.

Published in Times News on November 23, 2009

Daniel J. Rehatchek

Daniel J. Rehatchek, 55, of 308 W. Phillips St., Coaldale, died Sunday, Nov. 15, 2009, at St. Luke's Miners Memorial Hospital, Coaldale.

Born in Coaldale, he was a son of the late John and Mary (Harvilla) Rehatchek.

He worked for Blue Ridge Pressure Casting, Coaldale Borough and Highwood Industrial Park, Hometown.He was a graduate of Panther Valley High School in 1973.

He was a member of the former Ss. Cyril and Methodius Roman Catholic Church, Coaldale.

He was a former Coaldale councilman and a member of the Coaldale Complex.

Surviving is a brother, Richard C. Rehatchek of Coaldale, with whom Daniel resided; a sister, Patricia Orsulsak, of Coaldale; a niece Lori, wife of Ted Dacey, of Nesquehoning; a nephew, John Orsulsak, and his wife, Kristel, of Nesquehoning; four great-nieces ; a great-nephew; and his pet Poodle Geff.

He was preceded in death by a brother, Thomas.

Service: Wednesday, Nov. 18, 2009, at 11 a.m. from the Skrabak-Parambo Funeral Home, 210 E. Bertsch St., Lansford, with the Rev. Stephen Halabura officiating. Interment, Ss. Cyril and Methodius Cemetery, Nesquehoning. Calling hours, Wednesday, 10-11 a.m.

Cindy Marie Cannuli (Malinyak)

Mrs. Cindy Marie (Malinyak) Cannuli, 43, of W. Lehigh St., Coaldale died Thursday, October 29, in Coaldale.

She was a Catholic by faith and a respiratory therapist at St. Luke's Miners Memorial in Coaldale.

Cindy graduated from Chester County Arts & Technical School in 1984. She was also a graduate of Reading Area Community College.

Born in Chester, Pa., she was the daughter of the late Wayne A. Malinyak and Mary Ann (Yashura) Burcin of Phoenixville, Pa.

Surviving in addition to her mother is her maternal grandmother, Irene Yashura of Phoenixville, Pa.; step-son Austin S. Cannuli of Douglassville, Pa.; and aunts, uncles and cousins.

She was preceded in death in 2005, by her husband, Steven A. Cannuli.

Services: Arrangements are being handled by E. Franklin Griffiths Funeral Home, Inc., 655 E. Broad St., Tamaqua, Pa, where the family will receive friends on Tuesday, November 3, 2009, from 9:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m.

Mass of Christian Burial will be at 11 a.m. Tuesday, November 3, 2009, at

St. Jerome R.C. Church, 264 W. Broad St., Tamaqua, Pa. The Rev. James C. Bechtel is officiating.

Interment will be at Sky View Memorial Park, Tamaqua, Pa.

Memorials in her honor may be made to the church or to St. Luke's Miners Memorial Hospital, 360 E. Ruddle St., Coaldale, Pa. 18218.

Online registry and condolences may be signed at www.griffithsfuneralhomes.com.

Published in Times News on October 31, 2009

John A. Soberick "Jack"

John B. "Jack" Soberick Sr., 69, of 638 E. Bertsch St., Lansford, died Tuesday morning in his residence. He was the husband of his best friend, Catherine "Cathy" (Danchak) Soberick.

A skilled mechanic, he operated the family business, Soberick's Home and Auto Supply, Coaldale, which was established in 1945 and operated continuously to this day. He was especially dedicated to his elderly customers.

Born in Hazleton, he was a son of the late George and Helen (Modrick) Soberick.

Catholic by faith, he was a 1958 graduate of Marian Catholic High School.An avid railroad buff and model train collector, he was a member of the Lansford Knights of Columbus Council; a life member of the Coaldale Fire Company, where he served as assistant fire chief; the Train Collectors' Association; and a life member of the Lansford Fire Company.

Surviving, in addition to his wife, are two sons, Jack B. Jr. of Lansford and his fiance, Mary Kruczek, and Kevin J. of Fogelsville and his wife, Erin; his former wife, Rose Mary Cannon of Lansford; two siblings; a brother-in-law, Michael Danchak of Coaldale and his wife, Debbie; a mother-in-law, Helen Danchak of Coaldale; and six grandchildren, Lauren, Anthony and Hannah Soberick and Frank, John and Camille Kruczek.

He will be greatly missed by his loving wife, family, friends and grandchildren who will miss visits from Granpop/Pops.

Services: Mass of Christian Burial, 11 a.m., Friday, St. Katherine Drexel Catholic Church, Lansford, with the Rev. Kenneth Medve officiating. Interment, parish cemetery, Summit Hill. Call Friday, 8:30 to 10:30 a.m., August M. Gulla Funeral Home, 130 E. Ridge St., Coaldale. Contributions in his name may be made to the Ruth Steinert SPCA, Box 734, Minersville, PA 17954. Online registry at zrgfuneralhomes.com.

Published in Times News from September 29 to September 30, 2009

Johnson, Robert J.

Robert J. Johnson, of Foster Avenue, Coaldale, died Monday in Ashland. He was the husband of Bernadette (Latka) Johnson. Zizelmann Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements.

Published in the Times News on 9/22/2009

Dorothy Frye

Mrs. Dorothy Evelyn Frye, 72, of Coaldale, died Friday, Sept. 18, in her home. She was the widow of Lewis Frye Sr.

Born in Tamaqua, she was a daughter of the late John and Emma (Everett) Goho.

Surviving are four sons, Lewis Jr., and his wife, Kathleen, Edward, and his companion, Trina, and William, and his companion, Shannon, all of Coaldale, and John, and his wife, Jaime, of Kaska; two sisters, Connie Scheeler of Barnesville and Patricia Evans of Tamaqua; three brothers, John of Clamtown, Richard of Tamaqua and William of Coaldale; and five grandchildren.

Published in the Times News on 9/22/2009

Times News...............September 14, 2009

Goida, John

John Goida, 85, of 22 W. Ridge St., Lansford, died Sunday, Sept. 13, in the Hospice House of V.N.A. of St. Luke's, Lower Saucon Township. He was the husband of the late Helen (Hlubik) Goida, who died March 14, 1996.

He worked for the Pa. Department of Environmental Recourse running heavy equipment for 18 years until retiring in 1978.

Born in Lansford, he was a son of the late Peter and Annie (Heraus) Goida.He was a member of St. Mary Russian Orthodox Church, Coaldale.

Goida was an Army veteran of World War II, having served with the 7th Infantry, 3rd Division, in the European, African and Middle Eastern Theater of Operations.

He was also a member of the Coaldale Russian Club and the Lansford AMVETS Post.

In his younger days, he was an active member of the Lansford Little League.

He was a fan of the Oakland As and Notre Dame, and also loved following all local high school sports.

Surviving are two sons Paul, and his wife, Lennora, of Lake Hauto, and Stephen Hlubik of Dallas, Tex.; a daughter Roseann, wife of Greg Davidyock of Fayetteville, Pa.; two sisters, Olga Cash of Easton and Catherine Belser of Monroe, N.Y.; 15 grandchildren, 17 great grandchildren and several nieces and nephews.

He was also preceded in death by two sons John "Gabby" and Michael; two brothers, Teddy and Michael; and seven sisters, Mary, Anna, Helen, Eva, Julia, Elizabeth and an infant, Eva.

Service: Funeral service 10 a.m. Wednesday, Sept. 16, St. Mary Russian Orthodox Church, Coaldale, with the Rev. Daniel Mathewson officiating. Military graveside service, parish cemetery, Summit Hill, under direction of Panther Valley High School JROTC. Call 6-8 p.m. Tuesday and 9-10 a.m. Wednesday in the church. Contributions in his name may be made to the church, 217 First St., Coaldale, Pa. 18218, or the St. Luke Hospice, 2455 Black River Rd., Bethlehem, Pa. 18015. Arrangements by Sverchek-Blazosky Funeral Home, 340

Terry, Sara M.

Mrs. Sara M. Terry, 84, formerly of Lansford and Tamaqua, passed away on Aug. 28, 2009, in Honolulu, Hawaii. She was the widow of Jack R. Terry.

Born in Coaldale, she was the daughter of the late James and Helen (McNealis) Arner. She was a 1943 graduate of St. Mary's High School.

Prior to retiring she worked as a sewing machine operator in several local garment factories and as a cashier at the Friendly Market in Lansford.

Until leaving the area in 2002 she was an active member of the American Legion Auxiliary, most recently Unit 314, holding local and district offices over the years. She was also active with the Girl Scouts when her daughters were Scouts and was awarded the Girl Scout Mother of the Year award in 1963.

She is survived by her daughters Sara (Emmett) Gallagher of South Carolina and Jacqueline McLaughlin of Honolulu; three grandchildren, four great-grandchildren; sisters Helen (Harry) Gates of Gibbstown, N.J., and Theresa Ciavaglia of Coalale; brothers William (Faith) Arner of Tamaqua and Robert (Pat) Arner of Millsboro, Del; and many nieces and nephews.

She was also preceded in death by brothers James, Bernard, Russell, Jack, Charles, Francis, Larry and Joe; sister, Patricia Trudich; and son-in-law, Richard McLaughlin.

Service: Memorial graveside service on Saturday, Sept. 26, at 10:30 a.m. in Sky-View Memorial Park, Hometown, Tamaqua R.2, with the Rev. Stephen J. Halabura, officiating. In lieu of flowers the family suggests donations in her memory to the Lansford American Legion Riders, c/o 19 Swenson St., Tamaqua, Pa. 18252; or Amvets Post One, c/o 64 Oak Court, Nesquehoning, Pa. 18240; for their veteran assistance programs. The Skrabak-Parambo Funeral Home, Lansford, is in charge of arrangements.

Published in the Times News from 9/4/2009 - 9/11/2009

Dorothy Frye

Michael J. McHugh, III, 52, of West Howard Avenue, Coaldale, Pennsylvania, died on Saturday, August 22, 2009, in Hazleton, Pennsylvania. Born in Coaldale on June 17, 1957, he was the son of the late Michael J. McHugh, Jr. and Mary Elizabeth (nee McNeilis) McHugh. A graduate of Panther Valley High School, he was a certified nursing assistant. A member of the former St. Mary Catholic Church, Coaldale, he attended Ss. Peter & Paul Catholic Church, Tamaqua, PA. Michael is survived by a daughter, April Krynock and her husband, Stephen of Summit Hill, PA; 3 grandchildren; a sister, Cathy McHugh of Lansford, PA; 3 nieces; and 2 nephews. Services are to be announced. Arrangements are being handled by the August M. Gulla Funeral Home, 130 E. Ruddle Street, Coaldale, PA.

Facts

Born: June 17, 1957

Place of Birth: Coaldale, Pennsylvania

Death: August 22, 2009

Place of Death: Hazleton, Pennsylvania

Occupation: Certified Nursing Assistant

Survivors

Daughter, April Krynock and her husband, Stephen; Grandchildren, 3; Sister, Cathy McHugh; Nieces, 3; Nephews, 2.

Preceded in Death By

Father, Micahel J. McHugh, Jr.;

Mrs. Dorothy Evelyn Frye, 72, of Coaldale, died Friday, Sept. 18, in her home. She was the widow of Lewis Frye Sr.

Zavitsky, Lewie Allen

Lewie Allen Zavitsky, 33, of Ruddle Street, Coaldale, died Monday, Aug. 3, in the St. Luke's Miners Memorial Hospital, Coaldale, as a result of an accident that night on Route 309 in Rush Township.He was a truck driver for AutoZone, Hazleton. Born in Philadelphia, he was a son of Leo Allen and Mary Ann (Hartner) Zavitsky of Coaldale.He was of the Catholic faith.The deceased was a graduate of Panther Valley High School.He enjoyed racing, camping, Mustangs and Monster Trucks.Surviving in addition to his parents are two sons, Lewie Allen Jr., and his mother, Catherine Lussman, and Leland, both of Coaldale; his companion, Keri Taschler, and two brothers, Leo Allen Jr. and Luckey Allen, all of Coaldale; a sister, Mary Ann, wife of Dave Seip of Hellertown; a sister-in-law Bobbi, wife of Brian Kulaga; a niece, Jessica Seip; a nephew, David Seip III; and aunts and uncles. Service: Funeral service 11 a.m. Friday, Aug. 7, E. Franklin Griffiths Funeral Home, 655 E. Broad St., Tamaqua, with the Rev. William Linkchorst officiating. Interment, Sky-View Memorial Park, Hometown. Call 9-11 a.m. Friday. Contributions in his name may be sent to his children, c/o Mr. and Mrs. Leo Zavitsky, 174 First St., Coaldale, Pa. 182189. For online condolences and registry, visit www.griffithsfuneralhomes.com.

Born in Tamaqua, she was a daughter of the late John and Emma (Everett) Goho.

Jesse Earl Lorah, 56, of Coaldale, died Saturday in his residence.He is survived by three sons, Michael and Billy Lorah and Michael Moyer; two daughters, April Teter and Jessica Bachman; and five grandchildren.Memorial services will be announced at a later date from the August M. Gulla Funeral Home, 130 E. Ridge St., Coaldale.

Published in the Times News on 8/4/2009

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mrs. Anna M. Phillipovich of Tamaqua died Sunday, Aug. 2, surrounded by her family in the home of her son, John Phillipovich Jr., West Penn Pike, Tamaqua, with whom she resided. She was the widow of John Phillipovich Sr., who died in 2003.Prior to her marriage, she worked for the former Atlas Powder Company, Reynolds, the former Kiddie Kloes, Lansford, and then as a nanny in New York City, N.Y.Born in Coaldale, she was a daughter of the late Martin and the Johanna (Petrash) Matula.Surviving in addition to her son are two daughters, JoAnn, wife of Joseph Barnisky of Tamaqua, and Cindy M., wife of Gary Smolick of Northampton; a sister, Jennie Serina of Lansford; a brother Thomas of Coaldale; and two grandchildren, JoLynn Valentine and Christina Smolick.She was also preceded in death by three brothers, Martin, John and Joseph. Service: Mass of Christian Burial 10 a.m. Wednesday, Aug. 5, SS. Peter and Paul Catholic Church, with the Rev. William Linkchorst officiating. Interment, SS. Cyril and Methodius Cemetery, Nesquehoning. No calling hours. Memorials and masses in her memory may be made to the church, 301 Pine St., Tamaqua, Pa. 18252. Arrangements by E. Franklin Griffiths Funeral Home, 655 E. Broad St., Tamaqua. Sign online registry and condolences at www.griffithsfuneralhomes.com.

Published in the Times News on 8/4/2009

Surviving are four sons, Lewis Jr., and his wife, Kathleen, Edward, and his companion, Trina, and William, and his companion, Shannon, all of Coaldale, and John, and his wife, Jaime, of Kaska; two sisters, Connie Scheeler of Barnesville and Patricia Evans of Tamaqua; three brothers, John of Clamtown, Richard of Tamaqua and William of Coaldale; and five grandchildren.

Kobetic, Bernadine

Bernadine Kobetic, 92, died Friday, July 24, 2009, at the Southeastern Pa. Veterans Center, in Spring City, Chester County, where she resided. Before that, she lived in Lansdale for 32 years and was formerly of Coaldale.Born in Coaldale, she was the daughter of the late August and Mary (Polakovic) Kobetic. She served in the Women's Army Corps during World War II.Ms. Kobetic had a career as a beautician and worked in New York City.Surviving are nieces, Dolores Drozd and her husband, Robert, of Hilltown, and Frances Bass, and her husband, Ken, of Lincoln, DE.; a great niece, Michele Drozd, and great nephew, Matthew Drozd, both of Hilltown.Two brothers preceded her in death, Joseph and Frank Kobetic.Arrangements are private with Huff & Lakjer Funeral Home, Lansdale, in charge.

Published in the Times News on 9/22/2009

Kasick, Samuel

Samuel Kasick, 90, of Allentown, died Sunday, May 24, in his home. He was the husband of Pauline Kiddo (Chernaskey) Kasick.He owned and operated Imperial Cleaners, Allentown, for 48 years.Born in Lansford and raised in Coaldale and Allentown, he was a son of the late Simeon and Anastasia (Yurchak) Kasick.He was an Army veteran of World War II.Surviving in addition to his widow are a son, Atty. Samuel R., and his wife, Marj, of Coopersburg; a daughter, Nadia P., wife of Gary T. Saba of Allentown; a brother John of Allentown; and four grandchildren.

Published in the Times News on 5/26/2009

Howell, Fred .........Times News..............May 26, 2009

Fred "Tooter" Howell, 95, of 31 E. High St., Coaldale, died Saturday, May 23, in the Seton Manor, Orwigsburg. He was the husband of the late Anna Mae (Rowan) Howell, who died in 1984.He was self-employed in the laundry business in Coaldale, and had worked for the former Slatington Lamp Factory.Born in Tamaqua, he was a son of the late Ephriam and Anna Howell.He was a member of St. John Evangelical Lutheran Church, Tamaqua.An Army veteran of World War II, he was a Purple Heart recipient and a member of the Summit Hill American Legion and the Nesquehoning V.F.W. posts.Surviving are a brother Jim of Macungie; a loving grandson, A.J. Serina, and wife, Maria, and a great- grandson, Andrew Serina, of Tamaqua; a son-in-law, Andy Serina of Lansford; four other grandchildren and several great-grandchildren.He was also preceded in death by two daughters, Mary Serina, who died in 2006, and Ann Kokinda, who died in 1987; and several brothers and sisters. Service: Funeral service 11 a.m. Thursday, May 28, Skrabak-Parambo Funeral Home, 210 E. Bertsch St., Lansford, with the Rev. Phyllis Wolford officiating. Military graveside service, St. Nicholas Cemetery, Hometown. Call 10-11 a.m. Thursday. Summit Hill American Legion memorial service 10:30 a.m. Thursday. Contributions in his name may be made to the church, c/o the funeral home, 18232.

Jesse E. Lorah Jesse Earl Lorah, 56, of Coaldale, died Saturday in his residence.He is survived by three sons, Michael and Billy Lorah and Michael Moyer; two daughters, April Teter and Jessica Bachman; and five grandchildren.Memorial services will be announced at a later date from the August M. Gulla Funeral Home, 130 E. Ridge St., Coaldale.

RepublicanHearld.com................May 19, 2009

Rudolph P. "Rudy" Surovcik

Rudolph "Rudy" P. Surovcik, 66, of Pottsville, passed away Tuesday morning at Seton Manor, Orwigsburg.

Born in Coaldale, Dec. 16, 1942, he was a son of the late Rudolph and Verna Racko Surovcik.

Rudy was a 1960 graduate of Marian High School and a 1964 graduate of LaSalle College, Philadelphia, where he received a bachelor of science degree. He was a member of Sigma Phi Lambda at LaSalle College.

Rudy worked for IBM, Reading, for more than 30 years, retiring in 1995. After retirement he owned Bowers Group, a sales training company. He was also an employee of Benecon Group Inc.

He was a member of the former St. Francis of Assisi Roman Catholic Church, Mount Carbon, where he served as a lecturer for many years. He most recently was a member of St. Patrick Roman Catholic Church, Pottsville. He was a member of the Draft Board during the Vietnam War. He was past president of Rotary Club, Pottsville.

Rudy is survived by his wife of 44 years, Linda M. DeSalle Surovcik, Pottsville; a daughter, Lisa Walkush, wife of Mark, North Wales; two sons, Greg Surovcik, husband of Dianne, Hellertown, and Kevin Surovcik, husband of Janet, Malvern; six grandchildren, Derek, Ethan, Alex, Gabby, Adam and Annie; his brother, Dennis Surovcik, husband of Maryann, York; and several nieces and nephews.

Funeral services will be private. Interment will be in Calvary Cemetery, Hillside, Pottsville. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to the Alzheimer's Association, Delaware Valley Chapter, 399 Market Street, Suite 102, Philadelphia, PA 19106. Schlitzer-Allen-Pugh Funeral Home Inc., Pottsville, is in charge of arrangements. Online condolences may be sent through bestlifetributes.com.

Urban, Dolores

Mrs. Dolores (Kotkocin) Urban, 79, of East Ridge St., Coaldale, died Sunday in St. Luke's Hospital, Bethlehem. She was the widow of Joseph Urban, who died in 1964.Prior to retiring in 2007, she had been employed as a bartender at the Coaldale American Legion Post and the Coaldale Russian Club.Born in Lansford, she was a daughter of the late Harry and Rose (Antolik) Katkocin.She had been a member of SS. Cyril and Methodius Catholic Church, Coaldale, until its closing.A Judge of Elections in Coaldale's East Ward, she was also a member and past president of the Coaldale American Legion Post 170 and a member of the Coaldale Russian Club.Surviving are two daughters, Jacqueline Urban of lansford and Elizabeth Bynon of Coaldale; two grandsons, Robert Bynon Jr. and Derrick Bynon; nieces and nephews. Services; Memorial service from the August M. Gulla Funeral Home, 130 E. Ridge St., Coaldale, to be announced at a later date.

Published in the Times News on 5/18/2009Published in the Times News on 8/4/2009

Derr, Ann L.

Mrs. William Derr Mrs. Ann L. Derr, 81, of Fourth St., Coaldale, died Saturday in the Lehigh Valley Hospital- Cedar Crest, Allentown. She was the wife of William D. Derr.Prior to retiring in 1999 from the former Tami Sportswear, Tamaqua, she had been employed in quality control. Previously, she had been employed in the same capacity at the J.E. Morgan Knitting Mills for 21 years.Born in Coaldale, she was the daughter of the late Edward and Emma (Richards) Edwards.A life long member of First Congregational Church, Coaldale, she served on the church board, was a deaconess, treasurer of the Ladies Class and a member of the nursing home visitation program. She was also a volunteer at the Hometown Nursing Home.Surviving, in addition to her husband, are a daughter, Deborah "Debbie," wife of Dean Daderko of Coaldale; two sisters, Marian, wife of John Rhoads of Durham, N.C., and Margaret "Sissy" Shellhammer of Lake Hauto; a brother, Edward 'Ted" and his wife, Moyna, of Claymont, Del.; two grandchildren, Dean and Amy Daderko; nieces and nephews. Service : 11 a.m., Wednesday, First Congregational Church, Coaldale, with the Rev. Dr. Wayne Benack officiating. Interment, Odd Fellows Cemetery, Tamaqua. Call 6 to 8 p.m. Tuesday, August M. Gulla Funeral Home, 130 E. Ridge St., Coaldale, or Wednesday, 10 to 11 a.m., at the church. Contributions in her name may be made to the church. Online registry at zrgfuneralhomes.com.

Published in the Times News on 5/11/2009Notice • Guest Book • Send sympathy flowers • Visit the gift shop • Make a memorial contribution

Kalishevich, George .................Times News..............May 7, 2009

George Kalishevich, 62, of East High Street, Coaldale, died Wednesday, May 6, in the St. Luke's Miners Memorial Hospital, Coaldale. He was the husband of Frances (Nester) Kalishevich.A local radio personality, known as Mr. K, he was employed by radio station WLSH and was retired from the maintenance department at the Pottsville Hospital.Born in Munich, Germany, he was a son of the late Boris and Gailna (Brazeal) Kalishevich.A veteran of the U.S. Marine Corps, he served during the Vietnam War and was a graduate of Alvernia College, earning a bachelor's degree in criminal justice.An avid outdoorsman, he loved to walk in the woods behind his home.Surviving in addition to his widow are a daughter, Raissa Barnett of Reading; a brother Victor in Poway, Calif.; a sister, Alla Kalishevich of Coaldale; and a niece, Julia Kalish of San Fransisco, Calif. Service: Date and time for a memorial service will be announced at a later date by the August M. Gulla Funeral Home, 130 E. Ridge St., Coaldale. Online registry at zrgfuneralhomes.com.Share photos, videos and more with Legacy Memorial Websites. Find out more.

Joseph R. Pisklak ...March 24, 2009 ..Published: Friday, April 3, 2009

Joseph R. Pisklak, 82, of Las Tunitas, Venezuela, perished in a fire when his home burned on March 24.

Born in Coaldale, he was a son of the late John and Sophia Pisklak.

While living in Maracaibo, Venezuela, he and his wife, Sara, were founders and administrators of the Roberts School, a U.S. curriculum pre-K through grade 12.

He was preceded in death by brothers, John and William; and sisters, Caroline and Helen.

Surviving are two children, Patricia Lucas, Molokai, Hawaii, and Joseph Robert Jr., Great Mills, Md.; three grandchildren, Joseph C., Kayla and Kerri; a brother, Edward, Seaford, Del.; a sister, Margaret Roxandich, Pottsville; nieces and nephews.

A memorial service is planned.

Sign the guest book at

republicanherald.com

Mrs. Rose C. Sabol

Mrs. Rose C. Sabol, 97, formerly of Coaldale and Queens Village, N.Y., died Thursday, April 2, in the Hometown Nursing Center, Hometown. She was the widow of Stephen Sabol, who died in 1972.Prior to retiring, she was an elevator starter in New York.Born in Lansford, she was a daughter of the late Martin and Mary (Zbyvatel) Drozdek.She was a member of SS. Cyril and Methodius Catholic Church, Coaldale, the Panther Valley Golden Agers, Tamaqua Senior Citizens and the Catholic Daughters of America.Surviving are a sister, Josephine Andreas of Nesquehoning; and several nieces and nephews.She was also preceded in death by five sisters, Anna, Pauline, Catherine, Mary and Agnes; and two brothers, Michael and John.

Published in the Times News on 4/30/2009

Phillipovich, Anna M. View/Sign Guest Book

Helen Fabian

Mrs. Helen Fabian Mrs. Helen Fabian, 85, of East Ruddle Street, Coaldale, died Tuesday in the Blue Mountain Health Systems Gnaden Huetten Campus, Lehighton. She was the widow of Joseph Fabian, who died March 7, 1974.Prior to retiring, she had been employed in the local garment industry, working in factories in Coaldale and Lansford.Born in Coaldale, she was a daughter of the late Andrew and Julia (Surzica) Kurchak.She was a member of St. John the Baptist Byzantine Church, Lansford.Surviving is a sister, Julia Hill of Tamaqua.She was also preceded in death by three sisters, Irene Macaluso, Ann DeMario and Mary "Cookie" Kurchak; two brothers, Frank and Michael; and a nephew, William DeMario. Service: 11 a.m. Saturday, Zizelmann-Roche Funeral Home, 500 E. Broad St., Tamaqua, with the Rev. Ron Hatton officiating. Interment, St. John the Baptist Cemetery, Summit Hill. Call Saturday, 9 to 11 a.m. Online registry at zrgfuneralhomes.com.

Published in the Times News from 4/22/2009 - 4/23/2009

Mellay Jr., John "Jack" .............................Times New........March 24, 2009

John"Jack" Mellay Jr., 73, of Rotonda West, Fla., died March 24. He was the husband of Irene Mellay.Born in Coaldale, he had resided in Lewes, Del. before moving to Florida eight years ago.He was in the construction business.He was a member of the Moose Lodge No. 2554 in Gulf Cove and the Elks Lodge in Lewes, Del.Surviving in addition to his wife is his mother, Mary Mellay of Coaldale; his sister, Jacqueline Webb of Coaldale; three grandchildren, Katrina, Jennifer, and Chalres; and seven great grandchildren.He was predeceased by his two children, Mary Grace Hendrickson and John III.A memorial service will be held at a later date.

kNicholas Puschak.............. Times News February 25, 2009

Nicholas Puschak, 86, formerly of Coaldale and Glenside, died Monday (February 23) in Abington. He was the husband of the late Luba (Molotzak) Puschak, who died in 1978.

A veteran of World War II, he served with the U.S. Army Air Corps.

Puschak enjoyed spending time with his family and his many traveling adventures.

Surviving are two daughters, Caren Puschak and Christina Gallagher; two sons, Carl and Nicholas Jr.; two brothers, Dr. Russell and Paul Puschak; eight loving grandchildren; and many cousins.

He was also preceded in death by a brother, Dr. Theodore Puschak.

Service: Saturday, 11 a.m., St. Mary Russian orthodox Church, Coaldale. Interment, parish cemetery. Call Saturday 9 to 11 a.m. at the church. Contributions in his name may be made to the church. Online registry at zrgfuneralhomes.com.

Mrs. Anna M Phillipovich Mrs. Anna M. Phillipovich of Tamaqua died Sunday, Aug. 2, surrounded by her family in the home of her son, John Phillipovich Jr., West Penn Pike, Tamaqua, with whom she resided. She was the widow of John Phillipovich Sr., who died in 2003.Prior to her marriage, she worked for the former Atlas Powder Company, Reynolds, the former Kiddie Kloes, Lansford, and then as a nanny in New York City, N.Y.Born in Coaldale, she was a daughter of the late Martin and the Johanna (Petrash) Matula.Surviving in addition to her son are two daughters, JoAnn, wife of Joseph Barnisky of Tamaqua, and Cindy M., wife of Gary Smolick of Northampton; a sister, Jennie Serina of Lansford; a brother Thomas of Coaldale; and two grandchildren, JoLynn Valentine and Christina Smolick.She was also preceded in death by three brothers, Martin, John and Joseph. Service: Mass of Christian Burial 10 a.m. Wednesday, Aug. 5, SS. Peter and Paul Catholic Church, with the Rev. William Linkchorst officiating. Interment, SS. Cyril and Methodius Cemetery, Nesquehoning. No calling hours. Memorials and masses in her memory may be made to the church, 301 Pine St., Tamaqua, Pa. 18252. Arrangements by E. Franklin Griffiths Funeral Home, 655 E. Broad St., Tamaqua.

Miller Sr., Philip P.

Philip P. "Phil" Miller Sr., 90, of 110 E. High St., Coaldale, died Monday, Feb. 9, in the St. Luke's Miners Memorial Hospital, Coaldale. He was the husband of the late Mary Rita (O'Donnell) Miller, who died in 2001.

He worked for the former Bundy Tubing Company, Hometown, as plant manager. He was hired No. 3 at the plant and retired in 1977.

Born in Coaldale, he was a son of the late Harry and Sadie (Johnson) Miller.

He was a member of St. Joseph Catholic Church, Summit Hill, and the former St. Mary of the Assumption Catholic Church, Coaldale, where he was a past president of the Holy Name Society.

Miller was a 1933 graduate of the former St. Mary High School, Coaldale.

He was an Army veteran of World War II, having served in Company B, 53rd Signal Battalion. He served in Algeria, French Morocco, Tunisia, Sicily, Naples Foggia, Rome, Northern Apennines and Po Valley and received the EAME Campaign Medal with one Silver Bronze Service Star, two Bronze Service Stars and one Bronze Arrowhead.

He was a past president of CHOSE and a member of the Men of Marian and the V.F.W. and American Legion posts, both of Coaldale.

The deceased was a great fan of the Marian Fillies' volleyball teams, having attended many of their games.

Surviving are a son Philip, and his wife, Debra, of Palmerton; five daughters, Celia, wife of Charles Keer, and Lorraine, wife of Mark Robbins, both of Coaldale, Marian, wife of Kris Hoffner of Palmerton, Sally, wife of Bruce Benner of Bethany Beach, Del., and Joan, wife of Dave Scholla of Dunmore, Pa.; an aunt, Lucy McNelis in Delaware; a sister-in-law Joan, wife of Charles Wildoner of Jim Thorpe; 19 grandchildren, 10 great-grandchildren and his faithful companion, his dog "Holly."

He was also preceded in death by two brothers, Joseph and Charles.

Service: Funeral service 10:30 a.m. Friday, Feb. 13, Thomas J. Parambo Funeral Home, 54 W. Fell St., Summit Hill; Mass of Christian Burial 11 a.m., St. Joseph Catholic Church, Summit Hill. Military graveside service, parish cemetery, White Bear. Call 5-8 p.m. Thursday and 10-10:30 a.m. Friday. Contributions may be made to the Philip and Mary Rita Miller Scholarship Fund at Marian High School, c/o the funeral home, 18250.

Published in the Times News on 2/9/2009

Charles A. Sharpe, 78, of Coaldale, died Sunday (2-9-2009) in his residence.

Prior to retiring, he taught at the former St. Michael's Catholic School, Lansford.

Born in Coaldale, he was a son of the late Mr. Sharpe and Margaret (Reilly) Sharpe.

Catholic by faith, he was a graduate of the former St. Mary's High School, Coaldale, and St. Mary's College, Maryland.

Published in the Times News on 2/9/2009

Published: Times News ..........January 28, 2009

David M. Arner

David M. Arner, 52, of 124 E. Phillips St., Coaldale, died Tuesday, Jan. 27, at his residence.

He was last employed for Tamaqua Auto Parts.

Born in Coaldale, he was a son of Margaret (Vavro) Arner, with whom he resided, and the late Bernard Arner.

He was a 1974 graduate of Panther Valley High School.

He was a member of the American Legion and Russian Club, both of Coaldale.

He served in the U.S. Navy from 1974-1980.

He was a Catholic.

Surviving with his mother is a sister, Patricia Arner in Ohio; two brothers, Joseph of Nebraska and Ed, at home.

Service: At the convenience of the family with the Skrabak-Parambo Funeral Home, Lansford, in charge of arrangements.

Bubernak, Max

Max Bubernak

Max Bubernak, 99, of Coaldale, died Wednesday (January 21) in Maple Farms Nursing Home, Akron, Lanscater County. He was the husband of the late Sara (Sheers) Bubernak, who died in 1995.

Prior to retiring, he had been employed by Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., Trexlertown, as a pipe fitter. During the war years, he worked at LNC, Coaldale, as a weighmaster and shovel operator.

Born in Lansford, he was a son of the late Titus and Eudoxia (Monchak) Bubernak.

He was affiliated with St. Mary's Russian Orthodox Church, Coaldale.

The last immediate member of his family, he is survived by a son, Russell and his wife, Marian of Lancaster; two grandchildren and two step grandchildren; two great grandchildren and two step great grandchildren.

The August M. Gulla Funeral Home, 130 E. Ridge St., Coaldale, is in charge of arrangements.

Services: 11 a.m., Saturday, St. Mary's Russian orthodox Church, Coaldale, with the Rev. Daniel Mathewson officiating. Interment, Sky View Memorial Park, Hometown. Call Saturday, 9 to 11 a.m. Contributions in his name may be made to the church. Online registry at zrgfuneralhomes.com.

Published in the Times News on 1/22/2009

Marie Anne O'Malley Gorman

Mrs. Marie Anne Gorman, 78, of Lincroft, N.J., died Nov. 1 in the Riverview Medical Center, Red Bank, N.J. She was the wife of CDR Thomas J. Gorman, USN, Ret.

Born in Coaldale, she was a daughter of the late Michael and Ellen O'Malley.

She was a graduate of the former St. Mary High School, Coaldale, and attended the former Sacred Heart Hospital School of Nursing, Allentown, where she received her nursing degree.

She worked at the former Coaldale State General Hospital and the St. Joseph Hospital, Lancaster, before entering the U.S. Navy Corps, where she was first assigned to the Naval Hospital at St. Albans.

While on this tour of duty, she was recognized for being on the first surgical team that performed the first open heart surgery in the U.S.

She later worked in the intensive care unit of the Riverview Medical Center and as director of nurses at its extended care facility.

The deceased volunteered as the school nurse at St. Leo Grade School, Lincroft.

She and her husband traveled extensively, including having crossed the Atlantic Ocean 17 times on Cunard ships.

She traced her lineage on her father's side directly to the Irish Pirate Queen Granuaile O'Malley.

Surviving in addition to her husband are a son, Thomas Jr. of Lincroft; a daughter, Kathleen DeCamp of Red Bank; three brothers, Edward of Columbia, Md., Paul of Irvine, Calif., and Thomas of Lancaster; and three grandchildren.

Published in the Lehighton Times News on 20 November 2008

James R. Polansky

James R. Polansky, 51, of Lakeshore Drive, Jupiter, Fla., died Sunday in Jupiter. He was the husband of Gwyn (Smith) Polansky.

He had been employed as director of business development for the Mizkan Corporation in Illinois, a food production company.

Born in Plainfield, N.J., he was a so