PARIS — Complaining about a lack of political substance in French movies is sort of like saying there isn’t enough potato in your French fries.

It’s an especially startling statement in a country where moviemaking has always been considered a rebellious art form rather than an industry. So a recent cover story lamenting “French movies’ political void” in Cahiers du Cinéma, the Paris-based bible of cinephiles worldwide, played almost like a funeral scene.

“French cinema has locked itself into a type of imagery cut off from reality,” wrote Stéphane Delorme, the editor of the highbrow monthly. “As the world goes round — and fast — it doesn’t resonate with our lives.”

Where, Delorme asked, are the French films dealing with big-picture problems such as the financial crisis, Europe, the ruling caste, or the rising rebellion against the order of the day?

The question probably comes as a surprise to foreign moviegoers who think of French films as long, black-and-white existentialist oeuvres showing stylish couples debating their love lives, the future of the proletariat and the meaning of it all in badly-lit kitchens while quoting Jean-Paul Sartre and smoking unfiltered cigarettes.

All that movie directors seem to care about — whether beginners or old hands — is “what works.”

But hold the clichés. It may be that French movies, whatever their worldwide reputation, have never been that politics-obsessed to begin with.

“It is an illusion to think that French cinema has ever been highly political,” says Oliver Séguret, the longtime chief movie critic for the daily Libération and the author of a recent book on legendary “nouvelle vague” director Jean-Luc Godard. “It is much less political than the U.S. cinema, or the German, Spanish or Italian ones.”

The inability of French directors to tackle contemporary topics or touchy subjects from the country’s recent or distant history has long been a subject of analysis by the country’s critics.

Hollywood and U.S. independent movie-makers have produced scores of films on the Iraq wars, for example. And films about Washington and the corridors of power abound, whether comedies or dramas.

“These movies can be very good or terrible, but they do exist,” Séguret says. “France has what you could call a social cinema, not a political one. Social cinema doesn’t bother anyone, you don’t need to take sides, you just look at things. It’s either that, or stories about couples and their problems.”

In an interview with POLITICO, Cahiers editor Delorme said the “‘social’ approach is even a way of getting rid of politics. It’s a disillusioned view of situations presented as inescapable, producing feel-good movies tailored for your peace of mind: ‘If nothing can be done, I can rest content.’”

Instead, Delorme says, all that movie directors seem to care about — whether beginners or old hands — is “what works.”

That wouldn’t obviously apply to Godard himself, who after all made a movie in 2010 called “Film Socialism.” The 84-year-old enfant terrible of modern cinema keeps abreast of the news by “reading everything,” and his work is infused by a “profound despair” about the state the world, says Séguret. But he has chosen to become a craftsman working from his native Switzerland in deliberate isolation.

‘Cynicism of the times’

But among other, less reclusive French filmmakers, there’s little doubt that the market is the driving factor.

The irony is that the French movie industry has long thrived on a business model in theory designed to shield it from the vagaries of the market economy. It is financed in large part by special taxes levied on movie tickets, a generous tax credit system, and legal constraints forcing the country’s main television channels to devote a fixed part of their revenue to the pre-financing of films.

Because of that system, France has long lobbied, with success, for taking movie financing, and cultural industries in general, out of international negotiations on free-trade agreements such as the currently discussed Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP).

One of the expected benefits of the system was that it would allow moviemakers a level of artistic freedom hard to achieve if market laws reigned supreme. The French position, reflected in the EU’s stance in trade negotiations, is routinely denounced by the Motion Picture Association of America, a powerful Hollywood lobby, as “protectionist.”

Amble the sidewalks in the Opéra area of central Paris, however, and the three big multiplex cinemas there give a different picture, reflecting a long-standing French love of U.S films.

The theaters last week were playing “The Intern,” a Robert de Niro/Anne Hathaway vehicle; the latest Woody Allen movie, “Irrational Man“; and Ridley Scott’s “The Martian,” starring Matt Damon; a poster was also advertising the soon-to-be-released seventh episode of the Star Wars saga, “The Force Awakens.”

The French movies on offer? “Mon Roi” (My King) — about a female lawyer in rehab after a ski accident, and her destructive relationship with her hard-partying, disreputable boyfriend. And “Belles Familles” (Beautiful Families), depicting a globalized businessman living between Shanghai and London who goes back to his French provincial birthplace to take care of his dead father’s estate.

Both films opened to lukewarm reviews, though “Belles Familles” looks destined to become one the year’s blockbusters. But neither can be considered a “political” movie.

Five of last year’s top 10 box-office hits in France were U.S. movies, according to the annual report of Centre National du Cinéma, the state body coordinating film-related public policies. But the top three movies were French — including two light comedies and “Lucy,” a Luc Besson film starring… Scarlett Johansson and Morgan Freeman. The film was considered “French” only because it was partially shot in France and produced locally.

Seasoned moviemakers may opt for the escapism of comedy because of the general malaise gripping French society, but younger directors’ avoidance of tougher themes remains surprising, says one French producer. That may be because of what Delorme calls “the cynicism of the times.” It may also have something to do with the very business model on which French cinema depends.

Aspiring directors must endure the same kind of bureaucratic challenges that are part of any subsidy-based system, making the rounds to defend their scripts in front of many funding committees. “And every one seems to have a suggestion on what to do — add a character here or there, change the ending, etc.,” says one young director who requested anonymity because he is currently doing those rounds himself.

Producers have always had their say. Even in France, which prides itself on its ‘auteur’ tradition — emphasizing the director’s role. The problem stems from the multiplicity of financiers, and their often contradictory demands.

Regional governments are even pitching in with their own subsidies, but as always there’s a catch — “so if you ask for some financing from the Paris region, of course you can’t shoot your film in Bordeaux,” the director adds.

The existence of a strong market for movies has never been in question. The French are by far Europe’s biggest film-lovers. Some 209 million movie tickets were sold in the country last year, according to CNC — that’s much more than in more populous Germany (122 million), the U.K. (157 million) or Italy (100 million).

France, accordingly, has the largest number of movie screens in the EU — more than 5,600. That amounts to 9 screens per 100,000 inhabitants, compared to about 6 in Germany and the U.K.

‘Movies that work’

The push to make “movies that work,” even when financed by public aid or subsidies, is not new. France’s top audit body Cour des Comptes warned in 2014 against a system of film subsidies it said had grown opaque and inefficient. It noted that direct public financing of the French movie industry had grown four times as fast as overall public spending in the four years to 2012.

You can still count on French moviemakers and actors to make their political feelings known. They just do it offscreen.

The Court also reminded the French government that, as an EU document on “state aid rules for films and audiovisual works” had insisted the year before, “the goal of protecting and promoting European cultural diversity … can only be reached if these works reach an audience.”

Such an obvious statement, which would have been taken as insufferable market censorship by French moviemakers a few years ago. They may now be taking it too literally. That, at least, is the core of the “political void” accusation.

The French movie industry is also in the midst of another major shift in its business model that may explain its apparent lack of artistic audacity. The big public and private television broadcasters, which used to air major movies in prime time, have turned to the more rewarding charms of series, or reality-TV programs.

And pay-TV channel Canal Plus, the main private backer of French cinema, could reconsider its generous policy under the micromanagement style of financier Vincent Bolloré, the CEO of parent company Vivendi. Canal will not fund fewer films and is unlikely to cut its movie budget. But it may become more demanding on the type of movies it helps finance. Producers now want even more bang for their buck, accentuating the shift towards crowd-pleasing products.

You can still count on French moviemakers and actors to make their political feelings known, says Séguret. They just do it offscreen. A few hundred of them protested earlier this month in a petition asking the government to find a humanitarian solution to the so-called “Calais jungle,” the makeshift refugee camp near the Eurostar terminal that has caused tensions between France and the U.K.

But so far, no one has planned to shoot a film about it.

And when the Cannes Festival convenes again in May next year, the generally left-leaning profession may have another reason to brood. If Marion Maréchal Le Pen, the rising star of the far-right National Front party, becomes the president of the Provence region after elections due in December, she will be among the luminaries to climb up the prestigious steps on opening night.

In another time, that could have been the beginning of a good political movie.