Newton Aycliffe Service Centre

Your local service centre is located in Newton Aycliffe, where we run the Durham & Darlington Community Equipment Service.

We provide this service on behalf of Durham County Council, Darlington Borough Council, and NHS North East and North Cumbria.

Our highly trained team are also contracted for the maintenance & repair of patient lifting equipment, plinths, rise & recline chairs & gym equipment in hospitals run by Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust.

Get in touch

Please get in touch in regards to general enquires, repair/maintenance/technical issues of equipment loaned to you, equipment returns/recycling.

What support is available to help me keep independent?

If you have a disability and/or experience difficulty completing daily tasks, you have a couple of options:

Community Equipment Service

If your needs are complex and you require long term support, you may be eligible for an Occupational Therapy Assessment, where prescribers such as an Occupational Therapist can work with you to find ways of managing tasks, offer advice and potential solutions. This is a local authority and NHS funded service, where Medequip provide the equipment on loan.

Equipment would be prescribed and loaned to you through the Community Equipment Service. Vital equipment is sourced and delivered to Service Users to support hospital discharges, avoid admission, and support the needs of Durham and Darlington citizens, with the long-term aim of keeping people independent and safe in their home environment.

To access equipment, you will need to have an Occupational Therapy Assessment. You can ask your GP for a referral or if you are to be discharged from hospital, an assessment can be arranged. To enquire or request an assessment, you can contact the Adult Social Care Team:

Durham County Council resident: call 03000 267 979

Darlington Borough Council resident: call 01325 406111

Returning Equipment

If you have already benefited from equipment loaned to you that you no longer need, you can request a free collection, so Medequip can recycle and help others in need. To find out more visit returning equipment or contact us on 01325 524531 or email durhamanddarlington@medequip-uk.com.

Equipment with a Medequip label can be returned directly to any of the following drop off points.

Please click on a marker for details.

Crutches Amnesty - Durham - Oct 2022.pdf

Returning Equipment Flowchart - Durham and Darlington.pdf

Self-care

Self-care empowers you to live independently for longer, giving you the confidence to remain in your own home and complete everyday tasks safely.

With a wide range of equipment choice and Trusted Assessor advice, through local mobility retailers or online, finding equipment that is right for you has never been easier. This can range from food preparation and mobility to dressing and bathing aids. We have a demonstration and retail facility within the service centre to get a better understanding of equipment that could benefit you.

For online advice, you could use the online self-assessment tool, giving you free impartial advice about all types of equipment, to make daily living easier.

You could also consider Medequip’s online retail store, Manage At Home for a choice of 4000+ products from 100+ leading manufacturers of daily living aids, delivered directly to your home within 3-5 working days. Order your free catalogue here.

VAT relief is also available on many products, giving you financial help if you are disabled or have a chronic illness. To find out more visit VAT Relief.

Telecare

Medequip Connect help people to maintain their independence by providing personal care alarms and a range of associated equipment that give people the confidence of knowing that assistance is available at any time 24 hours a day. To find out more, visit the Medequip Connect website.

Contact Us

Our friendly Customer Services Team will assist with: