Matt Damon had “trouble” watching the new Andrew Scott Netflix adaptation of Ripley.

READ MORE: All Of Us Strangers review: the saddest film of the year

Damon played the titular con-man in the 1999 Oscar-nominated film version that was an adaptation of Patricia Highsmith’s 1955 novel. The film was directed by the late Anthony Minghella and also in the film were Jude Law, Cate Blanchett, Gwenyth Paltrow and Philip Seymour Hoffman.

Earlier this year, Highsmith’s novel was once again adapted, this time by Netflix for an eight-part, film-noir inspired series starring Scott. Also in the series were Johnny Flynn and Dakota Fanning.

The story, shot entirely in black and white, follows Scott’s character as he takes on a job assignment to take a trip to Italy in an attempt to persuade his employer’s son, Dickie Greenleaf (Flynn), to return home from Europe. As the series progresses, Tom Ripley works his way into the lives of Dickie and his girlfriend Marge (Fanning) where the story takes a dark turn.

Advertisement

The series received much critical acclaim with Scott’s performance earning high praise from reviewers and fans alike.

Now, in a new interview with IndieWire, Damon was asked whether he would ever return to the role. In his response, Damon referred to the latest adaptation of the show.

“I don’t know. You know, I associate the one that we did so much with Anthony Minghella, who’s passed away now, that I don’t know,” he explained.

Recommended

“I even had trouble watching the new one, as beautiful as it was and as great as everybody was. It was hard at first for me to sink back into it just because I have so many great memories, but they’re all wrapped up in these personal feelings about the experience.”

Damon also spoke about the series earlier this year to Associated Press saying previously that he “loved” Ripley after seeing the first episode saying it was “beautifully directed” and “impeccably acted”.

He explained: “The experience is so embedded in our younger lives. To hear those same names, same characters… it was just a flood [of memories]. It’s overwhelming.

Advertisement

All eight episodes of Ripley are available to watch on Netflix now.

Back in May, it was revealed that Scott was the latest actor to join the cast of Wake Up Dead Man: A Knives Out Mystery, the upcoming second sequel to the wildly successful 2019 film.