FAMILY Matters star has had his fair share of ups and downs when it comes to love.

His most public divorce was with his latest ex-wife Tammy Brawner. Here’s everything you need to know about who she is.

Who is Darius McCrary's ex-wife Tammy Brawner?

Tammy Brawn 35-years-old born in California.

She is a basketball athlete and the 10th woman to play for the Harlem Globetrotters.

Her time with the Globestrotters only lasted till April 2015.

Brawner sued the team for firing her because of her pregnancy and allegedly being a victim of sexual harassment under coach Jimmy Blacklock

However, the Globetrotters denied both accusations in a statement which read: “We have a 90-year track record for being among the most progressive organizations in sports, and we’re proud of that.”

In 2014, Brawner married the “Family Matters” star Daruis and had one child together, Zoey.

However, their union only lasted a few years until the athlete filed for divorce in 2017, citing irreconcilable differences.

The ex couple allegedly accused each other of physical abuse and filed a restraining order against each other.

Once the dicorce was settled, the outcome was that Brawner won custody of their daughter.

Who is his first wife Juliette Vann?

Juliette Vann was Darius’ first wife.

She was a Las Vegas showgirl who married Darius in 2005, just four months after dating.

The couple didn’t last long as they ended up getting a divorce in 2006.

There’s no information regarding their divorce or what Juliette is doing now.

Does Darius McCrary have any children?

The 45-year-old is the proud father of three children -two daughters and one son.

After his arrest in 2015 over child support deficit, the artist has been vocal about his love for his children and continues to flaunt them on his social media.

“It’s my greatest role to date,” McCrary said during an interview in which the celebrity father shared how he felt about parenting his son, Zechariah.

“He just reminds me every day of the responsibility I have as a man and a father,”

“Not only to him but to myself. The better I am for me, the better I am for him.”