Kunming South Railway Station Guides

Opened on Dec 28 2016, Kunming South Railway Station (Chinese name 昆明南站, Kunming Nan Zhan) is located in Chenggong district, 29km southeast of Kunming urban center. It is one principal railway station that covers 120,000 square metre, and has 16 platforms, 30 railway tracks. Kunming South Railway Station is mainly serving 185 high-speed trains bounding from Kunming to major cities in China per day, including the Nanning-Kunming High-Speed Railway and the Shanghai-Kunming High-Speed Railway.

Kunming South Railway Station has 4 floors. Departures and ticket offices are on 3F. Platforms on 2F, Arrivals are on 1F, and Metro Line 1 Station is on B1.

Mezzanine of 3F Commercial Area, restaurants, including Chinese foods, KFC, McDonalds 3F Level Departures Hall ( Waiting room and boarding gates (Ticket Check) , entrance, drop-off area, ticket offices, restaurants and foods 2F Level Platforms 1F Level Arrivals, Exits, Pick-up area, Transfer hall, Parking lots, East Square, West Square B1 Level Metro line 1 station, Exits, Parking lots.

Map and Location

Address: Wujiaying Street, Chenggong District, Kunming, Yunan Province, China

There are two major railway stations in Kunming: Kunming Railway Station and Kunming South Railway Station.

Kunming Railway Station is located in Guandu District, 3.5km south of downtown of Kunming .

Kunming South Station is located in Chenggong District, 29km southeast of downtown of Kunming.

Public Transportation

The public transports are included metro line1, city bus, Taxi. Metro line 1 is mostly recommended. How to get to Kunming South Railway Station?

Metro Line 1

Metro line 1 is the mostly recommended public way to or leave Kunming South Railway Station that links the station with downtown of Kunming and Kunming Airport. The metro station is on B1 of Kunming South Railway Station.

The first metro train is at 06:28 and the last is at 23:00. And the metro ticket fare is RMB4 - RMB8.

Kunming Metro Map

Taxi

Taxi is one convenient and fast, but also the most expensive way to get to or leave Kunming South Railway Station.

Taxi drop-off area: The west or east entrance on 3F

Taxi pick-up area: exit gates on 1F

The one way fare from Kunming South Railway Station to downtown is around RMB72, around 1 hour 20 minutes.

Taxi Fee Standard (the fuel surcharge is 1RMB one way)

Day(6:00~23:00) Night (23:00~6:00) 0~3 km RMB8 RMB10 2km - 10km RMB1.8 per km RMB2.2 per km Above 10km RMB2.7 per km RMB3.3 per km

Bus

There are 25 ctiy bus routes, 4 interctiy bus to or pass Kunming South Railway Station, including Bus K36 from Kunming South Railway Station to Kunming Railway Station, Bus 919k from Kunming South Railway Station to Kunming Changshui Airport. The bus station center is on East Square. The bus ticket fare is RMB2 - RMB15.

How to get to Kunming Airport(KMG)

Kunming Changshui International Airport(KMG) is located 37km northeast of Kunming South Railway Station. How to get to Kunming South airport? Please click on here for details.

Departures

Step 1: Get to Kunming South Railway Station by Metro line 1, Taxi, bus or Car.

Step 2: At entrance, go through Security Check and real-name ID check to enter departure Hall by showing passport. .

Step 3: Find the Boarding Gate (Ticket Check Gate). The gate No. will be in the confirmation email we send to you.

Step 4: Have a seat near the gate to wait for check-in and boarding. The boarding gate will be opened 20 - 15 minutes prior to the departure time.

Step 5: Ticket check. Please show your passport and confirmation No. to station staff to check in. The boarding gate will be closed 5 minutes before the train departs

Step 6: Find the platform of your train.

Step 7: Board the train and find your seats. How to find your seats?

Ticket offices

4 ticket offices on 3F

Do you need to collect paper tickets?

Since Dec 2019, the electronic tickets have been available on most high-speed and bullet train routes from or to Kunming South Railway Station.

It means international travellers can show their passports, likes Chinese ID to check in and board the train directly, and don't need to collect the paper tickets at ticket office.

How to check in the train by E-ticket? Please click on here to get Guides.

If you still need to pick up paper tickets, please click on here to get Guides.

Arrivals

Step 1: After get off your train, follow direction signs to exits. And please show your passport and confirmation No.(or paper ticket) to station staff to check out.

Step 2: Leave Kunming South Railway Station by metro line 1, bus, taxi or car. Metro line 1 is mostly recommended.

Food and Retaurants

There are some fast food, Chinese food and restaurants on Mezzanine of 3F, such as Dicos, Yunan Mixian, KFC and McDonalds.

Free WIFI