849 relations: Aardvark, Aardwolf, Abbreviation, Abraham Kuyper, Adelaide, Eastern Cape, AF, Afrikaans, Afrikaans grammar, Afrikaans Language Monument, Afrikaanse Hoër Seunskool, Afrikaner Broederbond, Afro-Asians, Air Force Base Waterkloof, Air Force Base Ysterplaat, Alexander, Alfred J. Kwak, Alfred Milner, 1st Viscount Milner, Allanridge, André Brink, Anglicism, Anthony Traill (linguist), Antjie Krog, Apostrophe, Archibald Campbell Jordan, Arctotis, Aristaloe, Arlington, Free State, Arnold Vosloo, Article (grammar), Asafoetida, At sign, Athol Fugard, Audacity (audio editor), Autonomy and heteronomy, É, Ê, Ë, Î, Ï, Ó, Û, Bachelor of Laws, Baltic Sea, Bantry Bay, Cape Town, Bantu Education Act, 1953, Bantustan, Bark (sound), Barkly West, Baster, Battle of Spion Kop, ..., Battle of the Nek, Bay duiker, BBC World Service, Beaufort West Local Municipality, Beautiful Dreamer, Bedfordview, Beeld, Belfast, Mpumalanga, Bellville, Western Cape, Bergrivier Local Municipality, Bergville, Bethulie, Beyers Naudé, Bitou Local Municipality, Black people, Black rhinoceros, Black-backed jackal, Black-footed cat, Blackface, Bles Bridges, Blesbok, Bloemfontein, Bloemhof, Bloody, Blue duiker, Bluebuck, Boer, Boer goat, Boerboel, Boerewors, Boomslang, Bophuthatswana, Boshof, Bosman, Botha, Bothaville, Botswana, Brandfort, Breakfast cereal, Breede Valley Local Municipality, Brennivín, Breyten Breytenbach, British diaspora in Africa, Brits, North West, Britstown, Broderbund, Bruma, Gauteng, Bryanston, Gauteng, Buffel, Bultfontein, Bunbury, Western Australia, C. R. Swart, Calque, Camps Bay, Cantus, Cape Agulhas Local Municipality, Cape Coloureds, Cape Corps, Cape Dutch, Cape Flats, Cape Malays, Cape Peninsula, Cape Town, Cape Winelands District Municipality, Car classification, Carling Black Label, Cederberg, Cederberg Local Municipality, Cenotaph, Central Karoo District Municipality, Chamois, Charlize Theron, Christiana, North West, Christoffel, Church Square, Pretoria, Circumflex, Ciskei, Citrus unshiu, City of Tshwane Metropolitan Municipality, City of Wanneroo, Clarens, Free State, Classified information, Clocolan, Close back rounded vowel, Close front rounded vowel, Close front unrounded vowel, Close-mid back rounded vowel, Close-mid front unrounded vowel, Cognate, Coloureds, Commando, Connie Mulder, Conservative Party (South Africa), Constantia Kloof, Cornelia, Free State, Cornelis Jacobus Langenhoven, Count, Cowies Hill, Crêpe, Crime of apartheid, Crossword, CSS Alabama, Cued speech, Culture of South Africa, Curious George, Cyril Ramaphosa, ǁKaras Region, D. F. M. Strauss, D. F. Malan, Danie Craven, Dannhauser, Deal or No Deal, Dealesville, Delmas, Mpumalanga, Demographics of Canada, Demographics of Lesotho, Demographics of Namibia, Demographics of South Africa, Denel Rooivalk, Deneysville, Dennis Brutus, Dental and alveolar flaps, Dental, alveolar and postalveolar lateral approximants, Dental, alveolar and postalveolar trills, Derrick (TV series), Devil's Peak (Cape Town), Diacritic, Die Stem van Suid-Afrika, Diepsloot, Dinky Toys, Dirk Mudge, District Six, Docent, Dogtanian and the Three Muskehounds, Dolmen, Donald Woods, Doonside, KwaZulu-Natal, Dordrecht, Eastern Cape, Double negative, Douglasdale, Gauteng, Dragostea Din Tei, Drakensberg, Drakenstein Local Municipality, Dubbing (filmmaking), Duiker, Dundee, KwaZulu-Natal, Dutch Empire, Dutch Language Union, Dutch oven, Dutch people, Dutch-language literature, East Rand, Eastern Cape, Edenburg, Edenville, Free State, Edmund Ironside, 1st Baron Ironside, Egoli: Place of Gold, Eketahuna, Eland Mk7, Elisabeth Eybers, Embeth Davidtz, English language in Europe, Ernst Oswald Johannes Westphal, Ernst van Heerden, Erongo Region, Erythrina, Eskom, Estcourt, Et cetera, Excelsior, Free State, Fairway, Gauteng, Fauresmith, Fering, Ferricrete, Ficksburg, Final-obstruent devoicing, Finland Swedish, Fish River (Namibia), Fish River Canyon, Flag of South Africa, Florida, Gauteng, Folk rock, Ford Cortina, Foreign language influences in English, Foreign relations of Namibia, Forgiveness (2004 film), Former Region 3 (Johannesburg), Fouriesburg, Fourways, Francine, Frankfort, Free State, Frankish language, Franschhoek, Frederik van Zyl Slabbert, Free state (government), Free State (province), French people, Frisian languages, Fusional language, Fynbos, Galago, Gansbaai, Garden Route, Gauteng, Gay bar, Gayle language, Gazankulu, Gcina Mhlope, General Dynamics F-111 Aardvark, Genootskap van Regte Afrikaners, Geographical distribution of German speakers, Geography of Namibia, Geography of South Africa, George Bizos, George Local Municipality, Gerbera jamesonii, German colonial empire, German diaspora, German language, Germanic languages, Germanic strong verb, Germanic weak verb, Germany, Germiston, Gerrie Coetzee, Gerund, Glossary of names for the British, Goose bumps, Graaff-Reinet, Grahamstown, Grammar, Grammatical conjugation, Grammatical gender, Grammatical particle, Graskop, Great Kei River, Great Trek, Greater Netherlands, Gregg shorthand, Grey College, Bloemfontein, Grey rhebok, Greylingstad, Griekwastad, Griqua people, Griqualand East, Griqualand West, Ground beetle, Guttural, Guttural R, Gymnasium (school), Hamerkop, Hardap Region, Harrismith, Harry Potter in translation, Hartbeespoort, Hartebeest, Head cheese, Head of the Commonwealth, Hector Pieterson, Heidelberg, Gauteng, Heilbron, Henchman, Hendrik Verwoerd, Hennenman, Herman Charles Bosman, Hertzogville, Hessequa Local Municipality, Highveld, History of Africa, History of Johannesburg, History of Namibia, History of South Africa, History of the Netherlands, Hobhouse, Free State, Hoedspruit, Hookah, Hoopstad, Hotagterklip, Hottentot (racial term), Huguenots, Idol (franchise), Idols South Africa, IJ (digraph), Il Divo (album), Illovo Beach, Impala, Index of language articles, Indo-European languages, Infinitive, Ingrid Jonker, Inselberg, Institutes of the Christian Religion, International English Language Testing System, International vehicle registration code, Irene, Gauteng, Isipingo, ISO/IEC 8859, ISO/IEC 8859-1, ISO/IEC 8859-15, J. B. M. Hertzog, J. M. Coetzee, Jacaranda mimosifolia, Jaco, Jacobsdal, Jagersfontein, Jamie Uys, Jan Kempdorp, January 15, Jeff Flake, Jeremy Taylor (singer), Jim Reeves, Joan Hambidge, Johannesburg, John (given name), John van Melle, Juana María de los Dolores de León Smith, Juǀ'hoan dialect, Kaapse Klopse, Kaffir (racial term), Kaizer Chiefs F.C., Kalkkop crater, Kamp Staaldraad, KaNgwane, Kannaland Local Municipality, Karma and Effect, Karoo, Karridene, Kempton Park, Gauteng, Kenaf, Kenning, Kestell, Khoemana, Khoikhoi, Khoisan, Khomas Region, Khwe language, Kimberley, Northern Cape, Kinross, Western Australia, Klipspringer, Kloof, Kloofing, Knysna, Knysna Local Municipality, Kobus (given name), Koffiefontein, Kokstad, Kommetjie, Koos de la Rey, Koppies, Koster, North West, Kraal, Kranskop, Kroonstad, Krugerrand, Krugersdorp, Kudu, Kuruman, Kwaito, KwaNdebele, KwaZulu, KwaZulu-Natal, Kyrie, Ladybrand, Laingsburg Local Municipality, Langeberg Local Municipality, Language contact, Language planning, Language Spoken at Home, Languages of Africa, Languages of Canada, Languages of South Africa, Laurence, Lebowa, Leeudoringstad, Leon Schuster, Lesser kudu, Lichtenburg, North West, Limpopo, Lindley, Free State, Linguistic imperialism, Linguistic prescription, Lion's Head (Cape Town), List of acronyms: A, List of African writers by country, List of Afrikaans-language poets, List of alternative country names, List of botany journals, List of company name etymologies, List of countries and dependencies and their capitals in native languages, List of country-name etymologies, List of English words of Afrikaans origin, List of English words of Dutch origin, List of English words of Sanskrit origin, List of English words of Spanish origin, List of English words of Turkic origin, List of Germanic languages, List of Indo-European languages, List of language names, List of language regulators, List of languages by writing system, List of Latin-script alphabets, List of loanwords in Indonesian, List of numbers in various languages, List of official languages, List of official languages by country and territory, List of river name etymologies, List of South African English regionalisms, List of South African television series, Liverpool Plains Shire, Long and short scales, Longest words, Louwsburg, Love Shine a Light, Low Franconian languages, Lucas Mangope, Lucky Dube, Lucky Luke, Lydenburg, M-Net, Maggott, Makua people, Marabastad, Pretoria, Marais Viljoen, Marble Hall, Margrave, Marquard, Marxism–Leninism, Masiphumelele, Matrimonial regime, Matthias, Matzikama Local Municipality, Maurice Maeterlinck, May 5, Media of South Africa, Medium of instruction, Meerkat, Melia azedarach, Memel, Free State, Menlo, Mentioned in dispatches, Mid central vowel, Middelburg, Mpumalanga, Middle English creole hypothesis, Minister (Christianity), Minority language, Miriam Makeba, Modal verb, Modimolle, Modjadjiskloof, Mooi River (town), Mormonism in the 20th century, Morphological typology, Mort & Phil, Mossel Bay, Mossel Bay Local Municipality, Mulatto, Multilingualism, Multinational state, Music of Namibia, Music of South Africa, Muti, Mutual intelligibility, Mystery play, Nama people, Names for association football, Names of China, Names of the days of the week, Namib-Naukluft National Park, Namibia, Namibia, Land of the Brave, Namlish, National anthem of South Africa, National language, Naval officer ranks, Nǁng language, Nǃxau ǂToma, Near-close front unrounded vowel, Near-open front unrounded vowel, Nelson Mandela Bay Metropolitan Municipality, Nelson Mandela University, Nelspoort, Nelspruit, NetBeans, New Germany, KwaZulu-Natal, New Hanover, KwaZulu-Natal, Nkosi Sikelel' iAfrika, Non-convergent discourse, North Sea Germanic, North West (South African province), Northcliff, Northern Cape, Northgate, Gauteng, Norwegian language, Nul (band), Odendaalsrus, Offal, Official names of South Africa, Ohrigstad, OK, Olifants River (Limpopo), Omaheke Region, Oorlams Creole, Open back rounded vowel, Open back unrounded vowel, Open front unrounded vowel, Open-mid central rounded vowel, Open-mid central unrounded vowel, Orange Free State, Orange River, Orange River Colony, Orania, Northern Cape, Orion (constellation), Orkney Snork Nie, Orkney, North West, Os du Randt, Ottosdal, Oudtshoorn, Oudtshoorn Local Municipality, Overberg District Municipality, Overstrand Local Municipality, Ovine pulmonary adenocarcinoma, P. W. Botha, Paarl, Palatal approximant, Pancake, Park Rynie, Parliament of South Africa, Parys, Paschal greeting, Paul Kruger, Paul Roux, Pennington, KwaZulu-Natal, Perdekop, Petrus Steyn, Philippolis, Pickup truck, Pieter-Dirk Uys, Pik Botha, Pipe wrench, Pippi Longstocking, Plettenberg Bay, Polish language, Portuguese language, Postcolonial literature, Potchefstroom, Potchefstroom Campus, Pretoria, Pretorius, Prime Minister of South Africa, Prince Albert Local Municipality, Protea, Protest song, Proto-Germanic language, Proto-Indo-European language, QwaQwa, QWERTY, Rag (student society), Ramsgate, KwaZulu-Natal, Randburg, Ray Hill, Red Scare, Reddersburg, Reduplication, Regional accents of English, Regional language, Reich, Reitz, Free State, Reivilo, Rhinoceros, Rhodesia, Rice Krispies, Richard, River Club, Gauteng, Rondebosch, Roodepoort, Rooikat, Rosebank, Gauteng, Rosendal, Free State, Rouxville, Roy Campbell (poet), Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam, Rustenburg, SABC 2, SABC 3, Saldanha Bay Local Municipality, Salian Franks, San people, Sandton, Sasolburg, Sauk, Sausage, Schwa, Schweizer-Reneke, Sclerocarya birrea, Scout Motto, Scrabble letter distributions, Sea Point, Second Boer War, Senekal, Senior Counsel, Serval, Sharks (rugby union), Sheila Cussons, Simulcast, Sirenia, Sjambok, Smith (surname), Smithfield, Free State, Snap, Crackle and Pop, Snuff film, Soap opera, Sophiatown, South African (disambiguation), South African Air Force, South African Airways, South African Broadcasting Corporation, South African cuisine, South African English, South African poetry, South African rand, South African Republic, South African republic referendum, 1960, South African springhare, South West Africa, Southern African Development Community, Southern Rhodesia, Soweto, Space: 1999, Speak of the devil, Speaking clock, Spotted hyena, Springbok, Springfontein, Sri Lanka Matha, Stef Bos, Stellenbosch, Stellenbosch Local Municipality, Stellenbosch University, Stephen, Sterkfontein, Steve Biko, Steve Hofmeyr, Steynsrus, Stilfontein, Stone pine, Strand, Western Cape, Sub-Saharan Africa, Suburbs of Johannesburg, Sunninghill, Gauteng, Sunshower, Swartberg, Swartland Local Municipality, Swaziland, Swellendam Local Municipality, Synthetic language, T. O. Honiball, Taal, Table Bay, Table Mountain, Tag question, Takalani Sesame, Tatamkhulu Afrika, T–V distinction, Television in South Africa, The Gods Must Be Crazy, The Great Sermon Handicap, The Seagull, Theewaterskloof Local Municipality, Theunissen, Think tank, Third-person pronoun, Thomson and Thompson, Time–manner–place, Toast (honor), Tongue, Town, Township (South Africa), Traditional healers of South Africa, Transhumance, Transkei, Transport in South Africa, Transvaal Colony, Transvaal Museum, Trekboer, Truck, Tsonga language, Tsumeb, Tweebuffelsmeteenskootmorsdoodgeskietfontein, Tweeling, Tweespruit, Typing, Tzaneen, Uasin Gishu County, Uitlander, Umeboshi, Umtentweni, Umzumbe, Union Buildings, Union of South Africa, University of Johannesburg, University of the Western Cape, University of the Witwatersrand, Upington, Uvongo, Uvular nasal, Uvular trill, Uys Krige, Vaal River, Vaal Triangle, Varsity (Cape Town), Veld, Venda, Ventersburg, Ventersdorp, Ventolin (EP), Vereeniging, Verkeerdevlei, Vernacular, Victor & Hugo: Bunglers in Crime, Viljoenskroon, Villiers, Free State, Virgilia (plant), Virginia, Free State, Voice of America, Voiced labiodental fricative, Voiced uvular fricative, Voiceless uvular fricative, Voiceless velar fricative, Volksraad, Volksrust, Von, Voortrekker Monument, Voortrekkers, Vrede, Vredefort, Vryburg, Vryheid, Wakkerstroom, Walvis Bay, Warden, Free State, Warner Beach, Warrenton, Northern Cape, Welkom, Weltevredenpark, Welwitschia, Weregild, Wesselsbron, West Coast District Municipality, West Germanic languages, West Rand District Municipality, Western Cape, Westernization, Wiktionary, Wildebeest, William, Winburg, Windhoek, Windsorton, Winklespruit, Witbank, Witwatersrand, Witzenberg Local Municipality, Wolmaransstad, Wonderboom Nature Reserve, Woodmead, Word order, Xhosa language, Y, Youth activism, Youth Day, Zambezi Region, Zeerust, Zimbabwe Rhodesia, Zoo Weekly, Zulu language, Zulu people, .za, 1876 in South Africa, 1896 in literature, 1896 in South Africa, 1897 in South Africa, 1903 in South Africa, 1908 in South Africa, 1911 in South Africa, 1914 in South Africa, 1925 in South Africa, 1933 in South Africa, 1936 in South Africa, 1949 in South Africa, 1967 South African Grand Prix, 1969 South African Grand Prix, 1970 South African Grand Prix, 1971 South African Grand Prix, 1972 South African Grand Prix, 1973 in literature, 1987 in South Africa, 21 Squadron SAAF, 42 (number), 7de Laan. Expand index (799 more) » « Shrink index

Aardvark

The aardvark (Orycteropus afer) is a medium-sized, burrowing, nocturnal mammal native to Africa.

See Afrikaans and Aardvark

Aardwolf

The aardwolf (Proteles cristata) is a small, insectivorous mammal, native to East and Southern Africa.

See Afrikaans and Aardwolf

Abbreviation

An abbreviation (from Latin brevis, meaning short) is a shortened form of a word or phrase.

See Afrikaans and Abbreviation

Abraham Kuyper

Abraham Kuijper (29 October 1837 – 8 November 1920), publicly known as Abraham Kuyper, was Prime Minister of the Netherlands between 1901 and 1905, an influential neo-Calvinist theologian and also a journalist.

See Afrikaans and Abraham Kuyper

Adelaide, Eastern Cape

Adelaide is a rural town and area in the Eastern Cape Province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Adelaide, Eastern Cape

AF

AF, af, Af, etc.

See Afrikaans and AF

Afrikaans

Afrikaans is a West Germanic language spoken in South Africa, Namibia and, to a lesser extent, Botswana and Zimbabwe.

See Afrikaans and Afrikaans

Afrikaans grammar

This article describes the grammar of Afrikaans, a language spoken in South Africa which originated from 17th century Dutch.

See Afrikaans and Afrikaans grammar

Afrikaans Language Monument

The Afrikaans Language Monument (Afrikaanse Taalmonument) is located on a hill overlooking Paarl, Western Cape Province, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Afrikaans Language Monument

Afrikaanse Hoër Seunskool

The Afrikaanse Hoër Seunskool (Afrikaans Boys' High School) also known as Affies, is a public high school for boys situated in the city of Pretoria, Gauteng, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Afrikaanse Hoër Seunskool

Afrikaner Broederbond

The Afrikaner Broederbond (AB) (meaning Afrikaner Brotherhood) or Broederbond was a secret, exclusively male and Afrikaner Calvinist organisation in South Africa dedicated to the advancement of Afrikaner interests.

See Afrikaans and Afrikaner Broederbond

Afro-Asians

Afro-Asians or African-Asians (also sometimes Blasians or Black Asians) are persons of mixed African and Asian ancestry.

See Afrikaans and Afro-Asians

Air Force Base Waterkloof

Air Force Base Waterkloof is an airbase of the South African Air Force.

See Afrikaans and Air Force Base Waterkloof

Air Force Base Ysterplaat

is an airbase of the.

See Afrikaans and Air Force Base Ysterplaat

Alexander

Alexander is a common male given name, and a less common surname.

See Afrikaans and Alexander

Alfred J. Kwak

is a Dutch-German-Japanese anime television series based on a Dutch theatre show by Herman van Veen and was co-produced by VARA, Telecable Benelux B.V., ZDF and TV Tokyo and first shown in 1989.

See Afrikaans and Alfred J. Kwak

Alfred Milner, 1st Viscount Milner

Alfred Milner, 1st Viscount Milner, (23 March 185413 May 1925) was a British statesman and colonial administrator who played an influential leadership role in the formulation of foreign and domestic policy between the mid-1890s and early 1920s.

See Afrikaans and Alfred Milner, 1st Viscount Milner

Allanridge

Allanridge is a gold mining town in the Lejweleputswa District Municipality of the Free State province in South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Allanridge

André Brink

André Philippus Brink, (29 May 1935 – 6 February 2015) was a South African novelist.

See Afrikaans and André Brink

Anglicism

An Anglicism is a word or construction borrowed from English into another language.

See Afrikaans and Anglicism

Anthony Traill (linguist)

Professor Anthony Traill (1939&ndash;2007) was a linguist (specifically a phonetician), who was the world's foremost authority on a San (more broadly, a Khoisan) language called !Xóõ.

See Afrikaans and Anthony Traill (linguist)

Antjie Krog

Antjie Krog (born 23 October 1952) is a South African poet, academic, and writer.

See Afrikaans and Antjie Krog

Apostrophe

The apostrophe (&thinsp;' or) character is a punctuation mark, and sometimes a diacritical mark, in languages that use the Latin alphabet and some other alphabets.

See Afrikaans and Apostrophe

Archibald Campbell Jordan

Archibald Campbell Mzolisa "A.C." Jordan (30 October 1906 – 20 October 1968) was a novelist, literary historian and intellectual pioneer of African studies in South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Archibald Campbell Jordan

Arctotis

Arctotis is a genus of annual and perennial plants in the family Asteraceae.

See Afrikaans and Arctotis

Aristaloe

Aristaloe is a genus of evergreen flowering perennial plant in the family Asphodelaceae from Southern Africa.

See Afrikaans and Aristaloe

Arlington, Free State

Arlington is a small farming town in the Free State province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Arlington, Free State

Arnold Vosloo

Arnold Vosloo (born 16 June 1962) is a South African actor.

See Afrikaans and Arnold Vosloo

Article (grammar)

An article (with the linguistic glossing abbreviation) is a word that is used with a noun (as a standalone word or a prefix or suffix) to specify grammatical definiteness of the noun, and in some languages extending to volume or numerical scope.

See Afrikaans and Article (grammar)

Asafoetida

Asafoetida is the dried latex (gum oleoresin) exuded from the rhizome or tap root of several species of Ferula, a perennial herb that grows tall.

See Afrikaans and Asafoetida

At sign

The at sign, @, is normally read aloud as "at"; it is also commonly called the at symbol or commercial at.

See Afrikaans and At sign

Athol Fugard

Harold Athol Lanigan Fugard OIS (born 11 June 1932) is a South African playwright, novelist, actor, and director who writes in South African English.

See Afrikaans and Athol Fugard

Audacity (audio editor)

Audacity is a free and open-source digital audio editor and recording application software, available for Windows, macOS/OS X and Unix-like operating systems.

See Afrikaans and Audacity (audio editor)

Autonomy and heteronomy

Autonomy and heteronomy are complementary attributes of a language variety describing its functional relationship with related varieties.

See Afrikaans and Autonomy and heteronomy

É

É, é (e-acute) is a letter of the Latin alphabet.

See Afrikaans and É

Ê

Ê, ê (e-circumflex) is a letter of the Latin alphabet, found in Afrikaans, Dutch, French, Friulian, Kurdish, Portuguese, Vietnamese, and Welsh.

See Afrikaans and Ê

Ë

Ë, ë (e-diaeresis) is a letter in the Albanian, Kashubian, Emilian-Romagnol and Ladin alphabets.

See Afrikaans and Ë

Î

Î, î (i-circumflex) is a letter in the Friulian, Kurdish, and Romanian alphabets.

See Afrikaans and Î

Ï

Ï, lowercase ï, is a symbol used in various languages written with the Latin alphabet; it can be read as the letter I with diaeresis or I-umlaut.

See Afrikaans and Ï

Ó

Ó, ó (o-acute) is a letter in the Czech, Emilian-Romagnol, Faroese, Hungarian, Icelandic, Kashubian, Kazakh, Polish, Slovak, and Sorbian languages.

See Afrikaans and Ó

Û

Û, û (u-circumflex) is a letter of the Kurdish alphabet.

See Afrikaans and Û

Bachelor of Laws

The Bachelor of Laws (Legum Baccalaureus; LL.B. or B.L.) is an undergraduate degree in law (or a first professional degree in law, depending on jurisdiction) originating in England and offered in Japan and most common law jurisdictionsexcept the United States and Canadaas the degree which allows a person to become a lawyer.

See Afrikaans and Bachelor of Laws

Baltic Sea

The Baltic Sea is a sea of the Atlantic Ocean, enclosed by Scandinavia, Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Russia, Poland, Germany and the North and Central European Plain.

See Afrikaans and Baltic Sea

Bantry Bay, Cape Town

Bantry Bay is an affluent suburb of Cape Town situated on the slopes of Lion's Head and overlooking a rocky coastline, Western Cape Province, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Bantry Bay, Cape Town

Bantu Education Act, 1953

The Bantu Education Act, 1953 (Act No. 47 of 1953; later renamed the Black Education Act, 1953) was a South African segregation law which legalised several aspects of the apartheid system passed by the Apartheid regime which was really not on the side of the black community.

See Afrikaans and Bantu Education Act, 1953

Bantustan

A Bantustan (also known as Bantu homeland, black homeland, black state or simply homeland) was a territory set aside for black inhabitants of South Africa and South West Africa (now Namibia), as part of the policy of apartheid.

See Afrikaans and Bantustan

Bark (sound)

A bark is a sound most commonly produced by dogs.

See Afrikaans and Bark (sound)

Barkly West

Barkly West is a town in the Northern Cape province of South Africa, situated on the north bank of the Vaal River west of Kimberley.

See Afrikaans and Barkly West

Baster

The Basters (also known as Baasters, Rehobothers or Rehoboth Basters) are a Namibian ethnic group descended from Afrikaners and indigenous tribes which formerly resided in the Dutch Cape Colony.

See Afrikaans and Baster

Battle of Spion Kop

The Battle of Spion Kop (Slag bij Spionkop.; Slag van Spioenkop) was fought about west-south-west of Ladysmith on the hilltop of Spioenkop(1) along the Tugela River, Natal in South Africa from 23–24 January 1900.

See Afrikaans and Battle of Spion Kop

Battle of the Nek

The Battle of the Nek (Kılıçbayır Muharebesi) was a small World War I battle fought as part of the Gallipoli campaign.

See Afrikaans and Battle of the Nek

Bay duiker

The bay duiker (Cephalophus dorsalis), also known as the black-striped duiker and the black-backed duiker, is a forest-dwelling duiker native to western and southern Africa.

See Afrikaans and Bay duiker

BBC World Service

The BBC World Service, the world's largest international broadcaster, broadcasts radio and television news, speech and discussions in over 30 languages to many parts of the world on analogue and digital shortwave platforms, Internet streaming, podcasting, satellite, DAB, FM and MW relays.

See Afrikaans and BBC World Service

Beaufort West Local Municipality

Beaufort West Municipality (Beaufort-Wes Plaaslike Munisipaliteit) is a municipality located in the Western Cape Province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Beaufort West Local Municipality

Beautiful Dreamer

"Beautiful Dreamer" is a parlor song by American songwriter Stephen Foster (1826–1864).

See Afrikaans and Beautiful Dreamer

Bedfordview

Bedfordview is a wealthy town in western Ekurhuleni, sharing an administrative Boundary with the City of Johannesburg Metropolitan Municipality, Gauteng, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Bedfordview

Beeld

Beeld (English: Picture) is an Afrikaans-language daily newspaper that was launched on 16 September 1974.

See Afrikaans and Beeld

Belfast, Mpumalanga

Belfast is a small town in Mpumalanga Province, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Belfast, Mpumalanga

Bellville, Western Cape

Bellville is a city in the greater Cape Town metropolitan area in South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Bellville, Western Cape

Bergrivier Local Municipality

Bergrivier Local Municipality is a local municipality in the Western Cape province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Bergrivier Local Municipality

Bergville

Bergville is a small town situated in the foothills of the Drakensberg mountains, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Bergville

Bethulie

Bethulie is a small sheep and cattle farming town in the Free State province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Bethulie

Beyers Naudé

Christiaan Frederick Beyers Naudé (10 May 1915 &ndash; 7 September 2004) was a South African cleric, theologian and the leading Afrikaner anti-apartheid activist.

See Afrikaans and Beyers Naudé

Bitou Local Municipality

Bitou Local Municipality (formerly known as Plettenberg Bay Municipality) is a municipality part of Eden District Municipality located in the Western Cape Province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Bitou Local Municipality

Black people

Black people is a term used in certain countries, often in socially based systems of racial classification or of ethnicity, to describe persons who are perceived to be dark-skinned compared to other populations.

See Afrikaans and Black people

Black rhinoceros

The black rhinoceros or hook-lipped rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis) is a species of rhinoceros, native to eastern and southern Africa including Botswana, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.

See Afrikaans and Black rhinoceros

Black-backed jackal

The black-backed jackal (Canis mesomelas) is a canid native to two areas of Africa, separated by roughly 900 km.

See Afrikaans and Black-backed jackal

Black-footed cat

The black-footed cat (Felis nigripes), also called small-spotted cat, is the smallest African cat and endemic to the southwestern arid zone of Southern Africa.

See Afrikaans and Black-footed cat

Blackface

Blackface was and is a form of theatrical make-up used predominantly by non-black performers to represent a caricature of a black person.

See Afrikaans and Blackface

Bles Bridges

Bles Zombie Bridges (22 July 1946, Viljoensdrif, Free State) &ndash; 24 March 2000), born Lawrence John Gabriel Bridges, was a South African singer. He became known as Bles Bridges, as his Irish grandfather called him "Bles" (meaning "bald" in Afrikaans), due to his very thin hair from an early age. He released his first solo album in 1982, Onbekende Weermagman (Unknown Soldier). His professional career began in 1984, with the release of his second album, Bles, which went gold in under a month (25,000 copies) and included Maggie, one of his better-known songs. The album had sold twice that by the time his third album was released. At the time of his death, Bles had sold more than 2.6 million albums (records and CDs). Up to 2016, he sold over 3 million records, making him the biggest selling male singer in the Afrikaans Music industry. Soon Bles Bridges began alternating between Afrikaans and English language albums, to great acclaim. He also began working with Eurovision South Africa. In 2000, he began recording an album with his friends in the music industry. The first song - a duet with Patricia Lewis (and his last song as it turned out, as he died within a week of finishing it) - was "The First Kiss Goodnight" by Dennis East; it was recorded on 21 March 2000. His biggest hit was "Ruiter van die Windjie" (Rider of the Wind), which was released in 1986. In the 1980s, he held a concert in support of the Volkshulpskema (People's Help Scheme) of the Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging, a far right paramilitary organisation, which raised R10,000. He had cancer during the 1980s and gave generously to charity for cancer research after his recovery. His wife Leonie was his sound engineer and the composer and/or songwriter of most of his songs, including most of his biggest hits, including "Maggie" and "I am the Eagle, you're the Wind", among others. It was his custom to hand out roses to some of the female audience members in the front row at his concerts.. This was also the basis for a Leon Schuster skit, in the hit movie, Oh Schucks..... It's Schuster! (1989). In the skit, Shuster, dressed as an Afrikaner lady, became irate when Bridges refused to give her a rose. Chaos ensued. His career highlight was when he performed to a soldout 8,000-seater Superbowl at Sun City, five times on one weekend, becoming the first and only artist to do so, as feature artist on 14 and 15 November 1987. He actually managed to draw a bigger crowd than Frank Sinatra did when he opened the Super Bowl in 1982. Bles died in a motorcar accident on 24 March 2000, leaving behind his wife, Leonie, and children Sunette and Victor. More than 20,000 mourners turned up for his funeral. Albums & Cd's Released.

See Afrikaans and Bles Bridges

Blesbok

The blesbok or blesbuck (Damaliscus pygargus phillipsi) is an antelope endemic to South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Blesbok

Bloemfontein

Bloemfontein (Afrikaans and Dutch "fountain of flowers" or "blooming fountain"; also known as Bloem) is the capital city of the province of Free State of South Africa; and, as the judicial capital of the nation, one of South Africa's three national capitals (the other two being Cape Town, the legislative capital, and Pretoria, the administrative capital) and is the seventh largest city in South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Bloemfontein

Bloemhof

Bloemhof is an agricultural town of about 2,000 inhabitants situated on the banks of the Vaal River in North West Province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Bloemhof

Bloody

Bloody is a commonly used expletive attributive (intensifier) in British English.

See Afrikaans and Bloody

Blue duiker

The blue duiker (Philantomba monticola) is a small antelope found in western, southern and eastern Africa.

See Afrikaans and Blue duiker

Bluebuck

The bluebuck (Afrikaans: bloubok) or blue antelope (Hippotragus leucophaeus) is an extinct species of antelope that lived in South Africa until around 1800.

See Afrikaans and Bluebuck

Boer

Boer is the Dutch and Afrikaans noun for "farmer".

See Afrikaans and Boer

Boer goat

The Boer goat is a breed of goat that was developed in South Africa in the early 1900s for meat production.

See Afrikaans and Boer goat

Boerboel

The Boerboel, also known as the South African Mastiff, is a large, Molosser-type breed from South Africa bred for the purpose of guarding the homestead.

See Afrikaans and Boerboel

Boerewors

Boerewors a type of sausage which originated in South Africa, is an important part of South African cuisine and is popular across Southern Africa.

See Afrikaans and Boerewors

Boomslang

The boomslang (or; Dispholidus typus) is a large, venomous snake in the family Colubridae.

See Afrikaans and Boomslang

Bophuthatswana

Bophuthatswana (meaning "gathering of the Tswana people"), officially the Republic of Bophuthatswana (Tswana: Repaboleki ya Bophuthatswana; Afrikaans: Republiek van Bophuthatswana), was a Bantustan ("homeland"; an area set aside for members of a specific ethnicity) and nominally independent (independence was recognized only by South Africa) parliamentary democracy in the northwestern region of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Bophuthatswana

Boshof

Boshof is a farming town in the west of the Free State province, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Boshof

Bosman

Bosman is a Dutch and Afrikaans toponymic surname, originally meaning "man who lives or works in the forest".

See Afrikaans and Bosman

Botha

Botha is a common Afrikaans surname, derived from the Friso-Saxon Both.

See Afrikaans and Botha

Bothaville

Bothaville is a maize farming town situated near the Vaal River in the Lejweleputswa DM of the Free State province, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Bothaville

Botswana

Botswana, officially the Republic of Botswana (Lefatshe la Botswana), is a landlocked country located in Southern Africa.

See Afrikaans and Botswana

Brandfort

Brandfort is a small agricultural town in the central Free State province of South Africa, about 60 km northeast of Bloemfontein.

See Afrikaans and Brandfort

Breakfast cereal

Breakfast cereal is a food product made from processed cereal grains that is often eaten as a breakfast in primarily Western societies.

See Afrikaans and Breakfast cereal

Breede Valley Local Municipality

Breede Valley Municipality is a local municipality located within the Cape Winelands District Municipality, in the Western Cape province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Breede Valley Local Municipality

Brennivín

Brennivín is a clear, unsweetened schnapps that is considered to be Iceland's signature distilled beverage.

See Afrikaans and Brennivín

Breyten Breytenbach

Breyten Breytenbach (born 16 September 1939) is a South African writer and painter known for his opposition to apartheid, and consequent imprisonment by the South African government.

See Afrikaans and Breyten Breytenbach

British diaspora in Africa

The British diaspora in Africa is a population group broadly defined as English-speaking white Africans of mainly (but not only) British descent who live in or come from Sub-Saharan Africa.

See Afrikaans and British diaspora in Africa

Brits, North West

Brits is a large town situated in a fertile, citrus, vegetable and grain-producing area that is irrigated by the waters of the Hartbeespoort Dam in North West Province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Brits, North West

Britstown

Britstown is a small farming town situated in the Northern Cape province of South Africa, in the Pixley ka Seme District Municipality, Emthanjeni Local Municipality.

See Afrikaans and Britstown

Broderbund

Broderbund Software, Inc. (stylized as Brøderbund) was an American maker of video games, educational software and productivity tools.

See Afrikaans and Broderbund

Bruma, Gauteng

Bruma is a suburb of Johannesburg, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Bruma, Gauteng

Bryanston, Gauteng

Bryanston, Gauteng is an affluent residential suburb of Sandton, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Bryanston, Gauteng

Buffel

The Buffel (English: Buffalo) is a MRAP infantry mobility vehicle used by the South African Defence Force during the South African Border War.

See Afrikaans and Buffel

Bultfontein

Bultfontein is a town in the Free State province of South Africa with a total population of about 23,400 people.

See Afrikaans and Bultfontein

Bunbury, Western Australia

Bunbury is a coastal city in Western Australia, approximately south of the state capital, Perth.

See Afrikaans and Bunbury, Western Australia

C. R. Swart

Charles Robberts Swart, (5 December 1894 – 16 July 1982), nicknamed Blackiehttp://www.sahistory.org.za/dated-event/charles-robberts-blackie-swart-first-state-president-south-africa-born was a South African politician who served as the last Governor-General of Union of South Africa from 1959 to 1961 and the first State President of the Republic of South Africa from 1961 to 1967.

See Afrikaans and C. R. Swart

Calque

In linguistics, a calque or loan translation is a word or phrase borrowed from another language by literal, word-for-word or root-for-root translation.

See Afrikaans and Calque

Camps Bay

Camps Bay (Afrikaans: Kampsbaai) is an affluent suburb of Cape Town, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Camps Bay

Cantus

A cantus (Latin for "singing", derived from cantare), is an activity organised by Belgian, Dutch, French, Baltic, Afrikaans student organisations, BEST (Board of European Students of Technology) and fraternities.

See Afrikaans and Cantus

Cape Agulhas Local Municipality

Cape Agulhas Municipality (Kaap Agulhas Plaaslike Munisipaliteit) is a municipality located in the Western Cape Province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Cape Agulhas Local Municipality

Cape Coloureds

In Southern Africa, Cape Coloureds is the name given to an ethnic group composed primarily of persons of mixed race.

See Afrikaans and Cape Coloureds

Cape Corps

The Cape Corps and its predecessor units were the main military organisations in which the Coloured members of South Africa's population served.

See Afrikaans and Cape Corps

Cape Dutch

Cape Dutch, also commonly known as Cape Afrikaners, were a historical class of Afrikaners who lived in the Western Cape during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.

See Afrikaans and Cape Dutch

Cape Flats

The Cape Flats (Die Kaapse Vlakte) is an expansive, low-lying, flat area situated to the southeast of the central business district of Cape Town.

See Afrikaans and Cape Flats

Cape Malays

Cape Malays are an ethnic group or community in South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Cape Malays

Cape Peninsula

The Cape Peninsula (Kaapse Skiereiland) is a generally rocky peninsula that juts out into the Atlantic Ocean at the south-western extremity of the African continent.

See Afrikaans and Cape Peninsula

Cape Town

Cape Town (Kaapstad,; Xhosa: iKapa) is a coastal city in South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Cape Town

Cape Winelands District Municipality

The Cape Winelands District Municipality, formerly the Boland District Municipality, is a district municipality located in the Boland region of the Western Cape province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Cape Winelands District Municipality

Car classification

Governments and private organizations have developed car classification schemes that are used for innumerable purposes including regulation, description and categorization, among others.

See Afrikaans and Car classification

Carling Black Label

Black Label is a Canadian brand of lager distributed by Carling and well-known throughout the former British Empire.

See Afrikaans and Carling Black Label

Cederberg

The Cederberg mountains (Sederberg) and nature reserve are located near Clanwilliam, approximately 300 km north of Cape Town, South Africa at about.

See Afrikaans and Cederberg

Cederberg Local Municipality

Cederberg Local Municipality is a local municipality which governs an area of the Western Cape province of South Africa stretching from the Cederberg mountains through the middle valley of the Olifants River to the Atlantic coast.

See Afrikaans and Cederberg Local Municipality

Cenotaph

A cenotaph is an empty tomb or a monument erected in honour of a person or group of people whose remains are elsewhere.

See Afrikaans and Cenotaph

Central Karoo District Municipality

The Central Karoo District Municipality (Afrikaans: Sentraal Karoo-distriksmunisipaliteit) is a district municipality located in the Western Cape Province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Central Karoo District Municipality

Chamois

The chamois (Rupicapra rupicapra) is a species of goat-antelope native to mountains in Europe, including the European Alps, the Pyrenees, the Carpathians, the Tatra Mountains, the Balkans, parts of Turkey, the Caucasus, and the Apennines.

See Afrikaans and Chamois

Charlize Theron

Charlize Theron (born 7 August 1975) is a South African and American actress and film producer.

See Afrikaans and Charlize Theron

Christiana, North West

Christiana is an agricultural town of about 20,000 inhabitants on the banks of the Vaal River in North West province, South Africa The town is located on the N12 national route between Bloemhof and Warrenton, on the way to Kimberley (Northern Cape).

See Afrikaans and Christiana, North West

Christoffel

Christoffel is a Dutch and Afrikaans cognate of the masculine given name Christopher.

See Afrikaans and Christoffel

Church Square, Pretoria

Church Square (Afrikaans: Kerkplein), originally Market Square (Dutch: Marktplein), is the square at the historic centre of the city of Pretoria, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Church Square, Pretoria

Circumflex

The circumflex is a diacritic in the Latin, Greek and Cyrillic scripts that is used in the written forms of many languages and in various romanization and transcription schemes.

See Afrikaans and Circumflex

Ciskei

Ciskei was a nominally independent state &ndash; a Bantustan &ndash; in the south east of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Ciskei

Citrus unshiu

Citrus unshiu is a seedless and easy-peeling citrus species, also known as unshu mikan, cold hardy mandarin, satsuma mandarin, satsuma orange, and tangerine.

See Afrikaans and Citrus unshiu

City of Tshwane Metropolitan Municipality

The City of Tshwane Metropolitan Municipality (also known as the City of Tshwane) is the metropolitan municipality that forms the local government of northern Gauteng Province, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and City of Tshwane Metropolitan Municipality

City of Wanneroo

The City of Wanneroo is a local government area with city status in the northern suburbs of Perth, Western Australia.

See Afrikaans and City of Wanneroo

Clarens, Free State

Clarens is a small town situated in the foothills of the Maluti Mountains in the Free State province of South Africa and nicknamed the "Jewel of the Eastern Free State".

See Afrikaans and Clarens, Free State

Classified information

Classified information is material that a government body deems to be sensitive information that must be protected.

See Afrikaans and Classified information

Clocolan

Clocolan, established in 1906, is a small town in the Free State Province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Clocolan

Close back rounded vowel

The close back rounded vowel, or high back rounded vowel, is a type of vowel sound used in many spoken languages.

See Afrikaans and Close back rounded vowel

Close front rounded vowel

The close front rounded vowel, or high front rounded vowel, is a type of vowel sound, used in some spoken languages.

See Afrikaans and Close front rounded vowel

Close front unrounded vowel

The close front unrounded vowel, or high front unrounded vowel, is a type of vowel sound that occurs in most spoken languages, represented in the International Phonetic Alphabet by the symbol i. It is similar to the vowel sound in the English word meet—and often called long-e in American English.

See Afrikaans and Close front unrounded vowel

Close-mid back rounded vowel

The close-mid back rounded vowel, or high-mid back rounded vowel, is a type of vowel sound used in some spoken languages.

See Afrikaans and Close-mid back rounded vowel

Close-mid front unrounded vowel

The close-mid front unrounded vowel, or high-mid front unrounded vowel, is a type of vowel sound, used in some spoken languages.

See Afrikaans and Close-mid front unrounded vowel

Cognate

In linguistics, cognates are words that have a common etymological origin.

See Afrikaans and Cognate

Coloureds

Coloureds (Kleurlinge) are a multiracial ethnic group native to Southern Africa who have ancestry from various populations inhabiting the region, including Khoisan, Bantu speakers, Afrikaners, and sometimes also Austronesians and South Asians.

See Afrikaans and Coloureds

Commando

A commando is a soldier or operative of an elite light infantry or special operations force often specializing in amphibious landings, parachuting or abseiling.

See Afrikaans and Commando

Connie Mulder

Connie Mulder, born Petrus Cornelius Mulder (5 June 1925&ndash; 12 January 1988 in Johannesburg), was a South African politician, cabinet minister and father of Pieter Mulder, former leader of the Freedom Front Plus.

See Afrikaans and Connie Mulder

Conservative Party (South Africa)

The Conservative Party of South Africa (Konserwatiewe Party van Suid-Afrika in Afrikaans) was a right wing party that wished to preserve many aspects of apartheid in the system's final decade, and formed the official opposition in the white-only House of Assembly in the last seven years of minority rule.

See Afrikaans and Conservative Party (South Africa)

Constantia Kloof

Constantia Kloof is a suburb of Johannesburg, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Constantia Kloof

Cornelia, Free State

Cornelia is a ghost town in the Free State province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Cornelia, Free State

Cornelis Jacobus Langenhoven

Cornelis Jacobus Langenhoven (13 August 1873 – 15 July 1932), who published under his initials C.J. Langenhoven, was a South African poet who played a major role in the development of Afrikaans literature and cultural history.

See Afrikaans and Cornelis Jacobus Langenhoven

Count

Count (Male) or Countess (Female) is a title in European countries for a noble of varying status, but historically deemed to convey an approximate rank intermediate between the highest and lowest titles of nobility.

See Afrikaans and Count

Cowies Hill

Cowies Hill is a small upmarket residential suburb of Pinetown in Durban, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Cowies Hill

Crêpe

A crêpe or crepe (or,, Quebec French) is a type of very thin pastry.

See Afrikaans and Crêpe

Crime of apartheid

The crime of Apartheid is defined by the 2002 Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court as inhumane acts of a character similar to other crimes against humanity "committed in the context of an institutionalized regime of systematic oppression and domination by one racial group over any other racial group or groups and committed with the intention of maintaining that regime".

See Afrikaans and Crime of apartheid

Crossword

A crossword is a word puzzle that usually takes the form of a square or a rectangular grid of white-and black-shaded squares.

See Afrikaans and Crossword

CSS Alabama

CSS Alabama was a screw sloop-of-war built in 1862 for the Confederate States Navy at Birkenhead on the River Mersey opposite Liverpool, England by John Laird Sons and Company.

See Afrikaans and CSS Alabama

Cued speech

Cued Speech is a visual system of communication used with and among deaf or hard-of-hearing people.

See Afrikaans and Cued speech

Culture of South Africa

The culture of South Africa is known for its ethnic and cultural diversity.

See Afrikaans and Culture of South Africa

Curious George

Curious George is the protagonist of a series of popular children's books by the same name, written by H. A. Rey and Margret Rey.

See Afrikaans and Curious George

Cyril Ramaphosa

Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa (born 17 November 1952) is a South African politician and, since 15 February 2018, the fifth and current President of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Cyril Ramaphosa

ǁKaras Region

The ǁKaras Region, also spelled !Karas Region, is the southernmost and least densely populated of the 14 regions of Namibia; its capital is Keetmanshoop.

See Afrikaans and ǁKaras Region

D. F. M. Strauss

D.

See Afrikaans and D. F. M. Strauss

D. F. Malan

Daniel François Malan (22 May 1874 – 7 February 1959), more commonly known as D. F. Malan, was a South African politician who served as Prime Minister of South Africa from 1948 to 1954.

See Afrikaans and D. F. Malan

Danie Craven

Daniël Hartman Craven (11 October 1910 – 4 January 1993) was a South African rugby union player (1931–38), national coach, national and international rugby administrator, academic, and author.

See Afrikaans and Danie Craven

Dannhauser

Dannhauser is a former coal mining town in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Dannhauser

Deal or No Deal

Deal or No Deal is the name of several closely related television game shows, the first of which (launching the format) was the Dutch Miljoenenjacht (Hunt for Millions) produced by Dutch producer Endemol.

See Afrikaans and Deal or No Deal

Dealesville

Dealesville is a mixed farming town in the Free State province of South Africa and is surrounded by numerous salt pans.

See Afrikaans and Dealesville

Delmas, Mpumalanga

Delmas is a small maize farming town situated east of Johannesburg in Mpumalanga, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Delmas, Mpumalanga

Demographics of Canada

This article is about the demographic features of the population of Canada, including population density, ethnicity, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population, the People of Canada.

See Afrikaans and Demographics of Canada

Demographics of Lesotho

This article is about the demographic features of the population of Lesotho, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.

See Afrikaans and Demographics of Lesotho

Demographics of Namibia

This article is about the demographic features of the population of Namibia, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.

See Afrikaans and Demographics of Namibia

Demographics of South Africa

The demographics of South Africa encompasses about 56 million people of diverse origins, cultures, languages, and religions.

See Afrikaans and Demographics of South Africa

Denel Rooivalk

The Denel Rooivalk (previously designated AH-2 and CSH-2) is an attack helicopter manufactured by Denel Aviation of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Denel Rooivalk

Deneysville

Deneysville is a small town on the banks of the Vaal Dam in the Free State province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Deneysville

Dennis Brutus

Dennis Vincent Brutus (28 November 1924 – 26 December 2009) was a South African activist, educator, journalist and poet best known for his campaign to have South Africa banned from the Olympic Games due to its controversial racial policy of apartheid.

See Afrikaans and Dennis Brutus

Dental and alveolar flaps

The alveolar tap or flap is a type of consonantal sound, used in some spoken languages.

See Afrikaans and Dental and alveolar flaps

Dental, alveolar and postalveolar lateral approximants

The alveolar lateral approximant is a type of consonantal sound used in some spoken languages.

See Afrikaans and Dental, alveolar and postalveolar lateral approximants

Dental, alveolar and postalveolar trills

The alveolar trill is a type of consonantal sound, used in many spoken languages.

See Afrikaans and Dental, alveolar and postalveolar trills

Derrick (TV series)

Derrick is a German TV crime series produced between 1974 and 1998 starring Horst Tappert as Detective Chief Inspector (Kriminaloberinspektor) Stephan Derrick, and Fritz Wepper as Detective Sergeant (Kriminalhauptmeister) Harry Klein, his loyal assistant.

See Afrikaans and Derrick (TV series)

Devil's Peak (Cape Town)

Devil's Peak (Afrikaans: Duiwelspiek) is part of the mountainous backdrop to Cape Town, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Devil's Peak (Cape Town)

Diacritic

A diacritic – also diacritical mark, diacritical point, diacritical sign, or an accent – is a glyph added to a letter, or basic glyph.

See Afrikaans and Diacritic

Die Stem van Suid-Afrika

"Die Stem van Suid-Afrika" or "The Call of South Africa" was the national anthem of South Africa from 1957 to 1994, and shared co-national anthem status with "Nkosi Sikelel' iAfrika" until 1997, when a new hybrid song incorporating elements of both songs was adopted as the country's new national anthem.

See Afrikaans and Die Stem van Suid-Afrika

Diepsloot

Diepsloot, Afrikaans for "deep ditch", is a densely populated township in the north of Johannesburg.

See Afrikaans and Diepsloot

Dinky Toys

Dinky Toys was the brand name for die-cast Mazak zinc alloy miniature vehicles produced by Meccano Ltd.

See Afrikaans and Dinky Toys

Dirk Mudge

Dirk Frederik Mudge (born 16 January 1929) is a Namibian retired farmer and politician.

See Afrikaans and Dirk Mudge

District Six

District Six (Afrikaans Distrik Ses) is a former inner-city residential area in Cape Town, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and District Six

Docent

Docent is a title at some European universities to denote a specific academic appointment within a set structure of academic ranks at or below the full professor rank.

See Afrikaans and Docent

Dogtanian and the Three Muskehounds

Dogtanian and the Three Muskehounds (Spanish: D'Artacan y los Tres Mosqueperros; Japanese: ワンワン三銃士) is a Spanish–Japanese animated adaptation of the classic Alexandre Dumas story of d'Artagnan and The Three Musketeers.

See Afrikaans and Dogtanian and the Three Muskehounds

Dolmen

A dolmen is a type of single-chamber megalithic tomb, usually consisting of two or more vertical megaliths supporting a large flat horizontal capstone or "table".

See Afrikaans and Dolmen

Donald Woods

Donald James Woods, CBE (15 December 1933 – 19 August 2001) was a South African journalist and anti-apartheid activist.

See Afrikaans and Donald Woods

Doonside, KwaZulu-Natal

Doonside is a small coastal resort on the banks of the Little Manzimtoti River in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Doonside, KwaZulu-Natal

Dordrecht, Eastern Cape

Dordrecht is a town situated in the Eastern Cape Province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Dordrecht, Eastern Cape

Double negative

A double negative is a grammatical construction occurring when two forms of negation are used in the same sentence.

See Afrikaans and Double negative

Douglasdale, Gauteng

Douglasdale is a residential suburb in Sandton, Gauteng, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Douglasdale, Gauteng

Dragostea Din Tei

"Dragostea Din Tei" (literally "Love from the Lindens", official English title: Words of Love), also informally known as "Ma Ya Hi" and "The Numa Numa Song" (see), is the most successful single by the Moldovan pop group O-Zone, sung in Romanian.

See Afrikaans and Dragostea Din Tei

Drakensberg

The Drakensberg (Afrikaans: Drakensberge, Zulu: uKhahlamba, Sotho: Maluti) is the name given to the eastern portion of the Great Escarpment, which encloses the central Southern African plateau.

See Afrikaans and Drakensberg

Drakenstein Local Municipality

Drakenstein Municipality is a local municipality located within the Cape Winelands District Municipality, in the Western Cape province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Drakenstein Local Municipality

Dubbing (filmmaking)

Dubbing, mixing or re-recording is a post-production process used in filmmaking and video production in which additional or supplementary recordings are "mixed" with original production sound to create the finished soundtrack.

See Afrikaans and Dubbing (filmmaking)

Duiker

A duiker is a small to medium-sized brown in colour antelope native to Sub-Saharan Africa.

See Afrikaans and Duiker

Dundee, KwaZulu-Natal

The coal mining town of Dundee is situated in a valley of the Biggarsberg mountains in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Dundee, KwaZulu-Natal

Dutch Empire

The Dutch Empire (Het Nederlandse Koloniale Rijk) comprised the overseas colonies, enclaves, and outposts controlled and administered by Dutch chartered companies, mainly the Dutch West India and the Dutch East India Company, and subsequently by the Dutch Republic (1581–1795), and the modern Kingdom of the Netherlands since 1815.

See Afrikaans and Dutch Empire

Dutch Language Union

The Dutch Language Union (Dutch:, NTU) is an international regulatory institution that governs issues regarding the Dutch language.

See Afrikaans and Dutch Language Union

Dutch oven

A Dutch oven is a thick-walled cooking pot with a tight-fitting lid.

See Afrikaans and Dutch oven

Dutch people

The Dutch (Dutch), occasionally referred to as Netherlanders—a term that is cognate to the Dutch word for Dutch people, "Nederlanders"—are a Germanic ethnic group native to the Netherlands.

See Afrikaans and Dutch people

Dutch-language literature

Dutch-language literature comprises all writings of literary merit written through the ages in the Dutch language, a language which currently has around 23 million native speakers.

See Afrikaans and Dutch-language literature

East Rand

The East Rand is the urban eastern part of the Witwatersrand that is functionally merged with the Johannesburg conurbation in South Africa.

See Afrikaans and East Rand

Eastern Cape

The Eastern Cape is a province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Eastern Cape

Edenburg

Edenburg is a small sheep and cattle farming town situated about south of Bloemfontein in the Free State province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Edenburg

Edenville, Free State

Edenville is a small farming town situated in the northern Free State province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Edenville, Free State

Edmund Ironside, 1st Baron Ironside

Field Marshal William Edmund Ironside, 1st Baron Ironside, (6 May 1880 – 22 September 1959) was a senior officer of the British Army, who served as Chief of the Imperial General Staff during the first year of the Second World War.

See Afrikaans and Edmund Ironside, 1st Baron Ironside

Egoli: Place of Gold

Egoli: Place of Gold was a bilingual (English and Afrikaans) South African soap opera which first aired on M-Net on 6 April 1992.

See Afrikaans and Egoli: Place of Gold

Eketahuna

Eketahuna is a small rural service town, the most southerly in the Tararua District in the Manawatu-Wanganui region of the North Island of New Zealand, but is considered to be in northern Wairarapa.

See Afrikaans and Eketahuna

Eland Mk7

The Eland is an air portable light armoured car based on the Panhard AML.

See Afrikaans and Eland Mk7

Elisabeth Eybers

Elisabeth Françoise Eybers (26 February 1915 – 1 December 2007) was a South African poet.

See Afrikaans and Elisabeth Eybers

Embeth Davidtz

Embeth Jean Davidtz (born August 11, 1965) is an American actress.

See Afrikaans and Embeth Davidtz

English language in Europe

The English language in Europe, as a native language, is mainly spoken in the United Kingdom and Ireland.

See Afrikaans and English language in Europe

Ernst Oswald Johannes Westphal

Ernst Oswald Johannes Gotthard Gotthilf Westphal (1919-1990), was a South African linguist and a world expert in Bantu and Khoisan languages.

See Afrikaans and Ernst Oswald Johannes Westphal

Ernst van Heerden

Ernst van Heerden (20 March 1916 &ndash; 30 September 1997) was a leading Afrikaans poet.

See Afrikaans and Ernst van Heerden

Erongo Region

Erongo is one of the 14 regions of Namibia, its capital is Swakopmund.

See Afrikaans and Erongo Region

Erythrina

Erythrina is a genus of flowering plants in the pea family, Fabaceae.

See Afrikaans and Erythrina

Eskom

Eskom is a South African electricity public utility, established in 1923 as the Electricity Supply Commission (ESCOM) by the government of the Union of South Africa in terms of the Electricity Act (1922).

See Afrikaans and Eskom

Estcourt

Estcourt is a town in the uThukela District of KwaZulu-Natal Province, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Estcourt

Et cetera

Et cetera (in English), abbreviated to etc., etc, &c., or &c, is a Latin expression that is used in English to mean "and other similar things", or "and so forth".

See Afrikaans and Et cetera

Excelsior, Free State

Excelsior is a small farming town in the Free State province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Excelsior, Free State

Fairway, Gauteng

Fairway is a suburb of Johannesburg, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Fairway, Gauteng

Fauresmith

Fauresmith is located 130 km south west of Bloemfontein, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Fauresmith

Fering

Fering is the dialect of North Frisian spoken on the island of Föhr in the German region of North Frisia.

See Afrikaans and Fering

Ferricrete

Ferricrete is a hard, erosion-resistant layer of sedimentary rock, usually conglomerate or breccia, that has been cemented into a duricrust by iron oxides.

See Afrikaans and Ferricrete

Ficksburg

Ficksburg is a town situated at the foot of the 1,750 meter high Imperani Mountain in Free State province, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Ficksburg

Final-obstruent devoicing

Final-obstruent devoicing or terminal devoicing is a systematic phonological process occurring in languages such as Catalan, German, Dutch, Breton, Russian, Turkish, and Wolof.

See Afrikaans and Final-obstruent devoicing

Finland Swedish

Finland Swedish or Fenno-Swedish (finlandssvenska, suomenruotsi) is a general term for the variety of Standard Swedish and a closely related group of dialects of Swedish spoken in Finland by the Swedish-speaking population as their first language.

See Afrikaans and Finland Swedish

Fish River (Namibia)

The Fish River (Visrivier in Afrikaans, Fischfluss in German) is a river in Namibia.

See Afrikaans and Fish River (Namibia)

Fish River Canyon

The Fish River Canyon (Afrikaans: Visrivier Canyon or Visrivier Afgronde, Fischfluss Canyon), is located in the south of Namibia.

See Afrikaans and Fish River Canyon

Flag of South Africa

The flag of South Africa was designed in March 1994 and adopted on 27 April 1994, at the beginning of South Africa's 1994 general election, to replace the flag that had been used since 1928.

See Afrikaans and Flag of South Africa

Florida, Gauteng

Florida, Gauteng is a location in Gauteng province, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Florida, Gauteng

Folk rock

Folk rock is a hybrid music genre combining elements of folk music and rock music, which arose in the United States and the United Kingdom in the mid-1960s.

See Afrikaans and Folk rock

Ford Cortina

The Ford Cortina is a car that was built by Ford of Britain in various guises from 1962 to 1982, and was the United Kingdom's best-selling car of the 1970s.

See Afrikaans and Ford Cortina

Foreign language influences in English

The core of English language descends from Old English, the language brought with the Angles, Saxon, and Jutish settlers to what was to be called England in and after the 500s.

See Afrikaans and Foreign language influences in English

Foreign relations of Namibia

Namibia follows a largely independent foreign policy, with strong affiliations with states that aided the independence struggle, including Libya and Cuba.

See Afrikaans and Foreign relations of Namibia

Forgiveness (2004 film)

Forgiveness is a 2004 South African drama film dealing with the effects of the apartheid system and the difficulty of reconciliation.

See Afrikaans and Forgiveness (2004 film)

Former Region 3 (Johannesburg)

Region 3 was an administrative district in the city of Johannesburg, South Africa, from 2000 to 2006, and was also known as the Sandton region, as it included the formerly independent municipality of Sandton, and many of the northern suburbs of the former Johannesburg municipality.

See Afrikaans and Former Region 3 (Johannesburg)

Fouriesburg

Fouriesburg is a small town situated at the junction of the R711 and R26 routes in the eastern Free State, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Fouriesburg

Fourways

The district referred to as Fourways (which is a collection of suburbs, including the traditional suburb of Fourways) is the fastest-developing commercial and residential hub in northern Sandton, north of Johannesburg, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Fourways

Francine

Francine is a female given name.

See Afrikaans and Francine

Frankfort, Free State

Frankfort is a small farming town situated on the banks of the Wilge River in the Free State province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Frankfort, Free State

Frankish language

Frankish (reconstructed Frankish: *italic), Old Franconian or Old Frankish was the West Germanic language spoken by the Franks between the 4th and 8th century.

See Afrikaans and Frankish language

Franschhoek

Franschhoek (Afrikaans for "French Corner", Dutch spelling before 1947 Fransche Hoek) is a small town in the Western Cape Province and one of the oldest towns of the Republic of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Franschhoek

Frederik van Zyl Slabbert

Frederik Van Zyl Slabbert (2 March 1940 &ndash; 14 May 2010) was a South African political analyst, businessman and politician.

See Afrikaans and Frederik van Zyl Slabbert

Free state (government)

Free state is a term that has been occasionally used in the official titles of some states.

See Afrikaans and Free state (government)

Free State (province)

The Free State (Vrystaat, Foreistata; before 1995, the Orange Free State) is a province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Free State (province)

French people

The French (Français) are a Latin European ethnic group and nation who are identified with the country of France.

See Afrikaans and French people

Frisian languages

The Frisian languages are a closely related group of Germanic languages, spoken by about 500,000 Frisian people, who live on the southern fringes of the North Sea in the Netherlands and Germany.

See Afrikaans and Frisian languages

Fusional language

Fusional languages or inflected languages are a type of synthetic languages, distinguished from agglutinative languages by their tendency to use a single inflectional morpheme to denote multiple grammatical, syntactic, or semantic features.

See Afrikaans and Fusional language

Fynbos

Fynbos (meaning fine-leaved plants) is a small belt of natural shrubland or heathland vegetation located in the Western Cape and Eastern Cape provinces of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Fynbos

Galago

Galagos, also known as bushbabies, bush babies, or nagapies (meaning "little night monkeys" in Afrikaans), are small nocturnal primates native to continental Africa, and make up the family Galagidae (also sometimes called Galagonidae).

See Afrikaans and Galago

Gansbaai

(Dutch/Afrikaans for "bay of geese," sometimes referred to as Gans Bay or Gangs Bay) is a fishing town and popular tourist destination in the Overberg District Municipality, Western Cape, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Gansbaai

Garden Route

The Garden Route (Afrikaans: Tuinroete) is a stretch of the south-western coast of South Africa which extends from Mossel Bay (many say Mossel Bay is not part of the Garden Route, because it is positioned behind what locals call the "Boom Gordyn" roughly translates to "Tree Curtain") in the Western Cape to the Storms River in the Eastern Cape.

See Afrikaans and Garden Route

Gauteng

Gauteng, which means "place of gold", is one of the nine provinces of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Gauteng

Gay bar

A gay bar is a drinking establishment that caters to an exclusively or predominantly lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) clientele; the term gay is used as a broadly inclusive concept for LGBT and queer communities.

See Afrikaans and Gay bar

Gayle language

Gayle, or Gail, is an English and Afrikaans-based gay argot or cant slang used primarily by English and Afrikaans-speaking homosexual men in urban communities of South Africa, and is similar in some respects to Polari in the United Kingdom, from which some lexical items have been borrowed.

See Afrikaans and Gayle language

Gazankulu

Gazankulu was a bantustan in South Africa, intended by the apartheid government to be a semi-independent homeland for the Tsonga people.

See Afrikaans and Gazankulu

Gcina Mhlope

Nokugcina Elsie Mhlophe (born 24 October 1958) is a well-known South African anti-apartheid activist, actress, storyteller, poet, playwright, director and author.

See Afrikaans and Gcina Mhlope

General Dynamics F-111 Aardvark

The General Dynamics F-111 Aardvark was a supersonic, medium-range interdictor and tactical attack aircraft that also filled the roles of strategic nuclear bomber, aerial reconnaissance, and electronic-warfare aircraft in its various versions.

See Afrikaans and General Dynamics F-111 Aardvark

Genootskap van Regte Afrikaners

The Genootskap van Regte Afrikaners (Afrikaans for "Society of Real Afrikaners") was formed on 14 August 1875 in the town of Paarl by a group of Afrikaans speakers from the current Western Cape region.

See Afrikaans and Genootskap van Regte Afrikaners

Geographical distribution of German speakers

In addition to the German-speaking area (Deutscher Sprachraum) in Europe, German-speaking minorities are present in many countries and on all six inhabited continents.

See Afrikaans and Geographical distribution of German speakers

Geography of Namibia

At, Namibia is the world's thirty-fourth largest country (after Venezuela).

See Afrikaans and Geography of Namibia

Geography of South Africa

South Africa occupies the southern tip of Africa, its coastline stretching more than from the desert border with Namibia on the Atlantic (western) coast southwards around the tip of Africa and then northeast to the border with Mozambique on the Indian Ocean.

See Afrikaans and Geography of South Africa

George Bizos

George Bizos (born 15 November 1927) is a human rights lawyer who campaigned against apartheid in South Africa, most notably during the Rivonia Trial.

See Afrikaans and George Bizos

George Local Municipality

George Municipality is a municipality located in the Western Cape Province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and George Local Municipality

Gerbera jamesonii

Gerbera jamesonii is a species of flowering plant in the genus Gerbera.

See Afrikaans and Gerbera jamesonii

German colonial empire

The German colonial empire (Deutsches Kolonialreich) constituted the overseas colonies, dependencies and territories of Imperial Germany.

See Afrikaans and German colonial empire

German diaspora

German diaspora (Deutschstämmige; also, under National Socialism: Volksdeutsche) are ethnic Germans and their descendants living outside Germany.

See Afrikaans and German diaspora

German language

German (Deutsch) is a West Germanic language that is mainly spoken in Central Europe.

See Afrikaans and German language

Germanic languages

The Germanic languages are a branch of the Indo-European language family spoken natively by a population of about 515 million people mainly in Europe, North America, Oceania, and Southern Africa.

See Afrikaans and Germanic languages

Germanic strong verb

In the Germanic languages, a strong verb is a verb that marks its past tense by means of changes to the stem vowel (ablaut).

See Afrikaans and Germanic strong verb

Germanic weak verb

In Germanic languages, weak verbs are by far the largest group of verbs, which are therefore often regarded as the norm (the regular verbs), but they are not historically the oldest or most original group.

See Afrikaans and Germanic weak verb

Germany

Germany (Deutschland), officially the Federal Republic of Germany (Bundesrepublik Deutschland), is a sovereign state in central-western Europe.

See Afrikaans and Germany

Germiston

Germiston is a small city in the East Rand region of Gauteng, South Africa, administratively forming part of the City of Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Municipality since the latter's establishment in 2000.

See Afrikaans and Germiston

Gerrie Coetzee

Gerhardus Christian "Gerrie" Coetzee (born 8 April 1955) is a South African former professional boxer who competed from 1974 to 1986, and in 1993 and 1997.

See Afrikaans and Gerrie Coetzee

Gerund

A gerund (abbreviated) is any of various nonfinite verb forms in various languages, most often, but not exclusively, one that functions as a noun.

See Afrikaans and Gerund

Glossary of names for the British

Alternative names for people from the United Kingdom include nicknames and terms, including affectionate ones, neutral ones, and derogatory ones to describe British people, and more specifically English, Welsh, Scottish and Northern Irish people.

See Afrikaans and Glossary of names for the British

Goose bumps

Goose bumps are the bumps on a person's skin at the base of body hairs which may involuntarily develop when a person is cold or experiences strong emotions such as fear, euphoria or sexual arousal.

See Afrikaans and Goose bumps

Graaff-Reinet

Graaff-Reinet is a town in the Eastern Cape Province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Graaff-Reinet

Grahamstown

Grahamstown, never known as Makhanda (Grahamstad, iRhini) is a town of about 70,000 people in the Eastern Cape province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Grahamstown

Grammar

In linguistics, grammar (from Greek: γραμματική) is the set of structural rules governing the composition of clauses, phrases, and words in any given natural language.

See Afrikaans and Grammar

Grammatical conjugation

In linguistics, conjugation is the creation of derived forms of a verb from its principal parts by inflection (alteration of form according to rules of grammar).

See Afrikaans and Grammatical conjugation

Grammatical gender

In linguistics, grammatical gender is a specific form of noun class system in which the division of noun classes forms an agreement system with another aspect of the language, such as adjectives, articles, pronouns, or verbs.

See Afrikaans and Grammatical gender

Grammatical particle

In grammar the term particle (abbreviated) has a traditional meaning, as a part of speech that cannot be inflected, and a modern meaning, as a function word associated with another word or phrase to impart meaning.

See Afrikaans and Grammatical particle

Graskop

Graskop is a small town in Mpumalanga province, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Graskop

Great Kei River

The Great Kei River (Groot-Keirivier) is a river in the Eastern Cape province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Great Kei River

Great Trek

The Great Trek (Die Groot Trek; De Grote Trek) was an eastward migration of Dutch-speaking settlers (called Voortrekkers) who travelled by wagons from the Cape Colony into the interior of modern South Africa from 1836 onwards, seeking to live beyond the Cape's British colonial administration.

See Afrikaans and Great Trek

Greater Netherlands

Greater Netherlands (Groot-Nederland) or Dietsland ("Dutchland") is a hypothetical monolingual polity formed by fusing the two Dutch-speaking regions of Flanders and the Netherlands.

See Afrikaans and Greater Netherlands

Gregg shorthand

Gregg shorthand is a form of shorthand that was invented by John Robert Gregg in 1888.

See Afrikaans and Gregg shorthand

Grey College, Bloemfontein

Grey College is a public school for boys located in Bloemfontein, Free State, South Africa, one of the 23 Milner Schools.

See Afrikaans and Grey College, Bloemfontein

Grey rhebok

The grey rhebok or grey rhebuck (Pelea capreolus), locally known as the Vaal rhebok or Vaalribbok in Afrikaans, is a species of antelope native to South Africa, Zimbabwe, Lesotho, and Swaziland.

See Afrikaans and Grey rhebok

Greylingstad

Greylingstad (Afrikaans for Greyling City) is a small farming town west of Standerton in Mpumalanga, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Greylingstad

Griekwastad

Griekwastad (Afrikaans for "Griqua city") is a country town in South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Griekwastad

Griqua people

The Griqua (Griekwa, sometimes incorrectly referred to as Korana or Koranna) are a subgroup of Southern Africa's heterogeneous and multiracial Coloured people, who have a unique origin in the early history of the Cape Colony.

See Afrikaans and Griqua people

Griqualand East

Griqualand East (Afrikaans: Griekwaland-Oos), officially known as New Griqualand (Dutch: Nieuw Griqualand), was one of four short-lived Griqua states in Southern Africa from the early 1860s until the late 1870s and was located between the Umzimkulu and Kinira Rivers, south of the Sotho Kingdom.

See Afrikaans and Griqualand East

Griqualand West

Griqualand West is an area of central South Africa with an area of 40,000 km² that now forms part of the Northern Cape Province.

See Afrikaans and Griqualand West

Ground beetle

Ground beetles are a large, cosmopolitan family of beetles, Carabidae, with more than 40,000 species worldwide, around 2,000 of which are found in North America and 2,700 in Europe.

See Afrikaans and Ground beetle

Guttural

Guttural speech sounds are those with a primary place of articulation near the back of the oral cavity.

See Afrikaans and Guttural

Guttural R

In common parlance, "guttural R" is the phenomenon whereby a rhotic consonant (an "R-like" sound) is produced in the back of the vocal tract (usually with the uvula) rather than in the front portion thereof and thus as a guttural consonant.

See Afrikaans and Guttural R

Gymnasium (school)

A gymnasium is a type of school with a strong emphasis on academic learning, and providing advanced secondary education in some parts of Europe comparable to British grammar schools, sixth form colleges and US preparatory high schools.

See Afrikaans and Gymnasium (school)

Hamerkop

The hamerkop (Scopus umbretta), is a medium-sized wading bird.

See Afrikaans and Hamerkop

Hardap Region

Hardap is one of the fourteen regions of Namibia, its capital is Mariental.

See Afrikaans and Hardap Region

Harrismith

Harrismith is a large town in the Free State province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Harrismith

Harry Potter in translation

The Harry Potter series of fantasy novels by J. K. Rowling is one of the most translated series of all time, with the first book, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, having been translated into over 74 languages.

See Afrikaans and Harry Potter in translation

Hartbeespoort

Hartbeespoort, informally also known as "Harties", is a small resort town in the North West Province of South Africa, situated on slopes of the Magaliesberg mountain and the banks of the Hartbeespoort Dam.

See Afrikaans and Hartbeespoort

Hartebeest

The hartebeest (Alcelaphus buselaphus), also known as kongoni, is an African antelope.

See Afrikaans and Hartebeest

Head cheese

Head cheese or brawn is a cold cut that originated in Europe.

See Afrikaans and Head cheese

Head of the Commonwealth

The Head of the Commonwealth is the "symbol of the free association of independent member nations" of the Commonwealth of Nations (commonly known as the Commonwealth), an intergovernmental organisation that currently comprises fifty-three sovereign states.

See Afrikaans and Head of the Commonwealth

Hector Pieterson

Hector Pieterson (19 August 1963 – 16 June 1976) was a South African schoolboy who was shot and killed during the Soweto uprising, when police opened fire on students protesting the enforcement of teaching in Afrikaans.

See Afrikaans and Hector Pieterson

Heidelberg, Gauteng

Heidelberg is a town with 35,500 inhabitants in the Gauteng province of South Africa at the foot of the Suikerbosrand next to the N3 highway, which connects Johannesburg and Durban.

See Afrikaans and Heidelberg, Gauteng

Heilbron

Heilbron is a small farming town in the Free State province of South Africa which services the cattle, dairy, sorghum, sunflower and maize industries.

See Afrikaans and Heilbron

Henchman

A henchman is a loyal employee, supporter, or aide to some powerful figure engaged in nefarious or criminal enterprises.

See Afrikaans and Henchman

Hendrik Verwoerd

Hendrik Frensch Verwoerd (8 September 1901 – 6 September 1966), also commonly referred to as H. F. Verwoerd and Dr.

See Afrikaans and Hendrik Verwoerd

Hennenman

Hennenman is a small town in the Free State goldfields in the Lejweleputswa District Municipality of the Free State province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Hennenman

Herman Charles Bosman

Herman Charles Bosman (5 February 1905 – 14 October 1951) is widely regarded as South Africa's greatest short-story writer.

See Afrikaans and Herman Charles Bosman

Hertzogville

Hertzogville is a small cattle and sheep farming town in the Free State province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Hertzogville

Hessequa Local Municipality

Hessequa Local Municipality (before 24 June 2005 the Langeberg Local Municipality) is a municipality located in the Western Cape Province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Hessequa Local Municipality

Highveld

The Highveld (Afrikaans: Hoëveld) is the portion of the South African inland plateau which has an altitude above roughly 1500 m, but below 2100 m, thus excluding the Lesotho mountain regions to the south-east of the Highveld.

See Afrikaans and Highveld

History of Africa

The history of Africa begins with the emergence of hominids, archaic humans and – around 5.6 to 7.5 million years ago.

See Afrikaans and History of Africa

History of Johannesburg

Johannesburg is a large city in Gauteng Province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and History of Johannesburg

History of Namibia

The history of Namibia has passed through several distinct stages from being colonised in the late nineteenth century to Namibia's independence on 21 March 1990.

See Afrikaans and History of Namibia

History of South Africa

The first humans are believed to have inhabited South Africa more than 100,000 years ago.

See Afrikaans and History of South Africa

History of the Netherlands

The history of the Netherlands is the history of seafaring people thriving on a lowland river delta on the North Sea in northwestern Europe.

See Afrikaans and History of the Netherlands

Hobhouse, Free State

Hobhouse is a small farming town in the Free State province of South Africa, named after welfare campaigner Emily Hobhouse.

See Afrikaans and Hobhouse, Free State

Hoedspruit

Hoedspruit (Afrikaans for Hat Creek) is a town situated at the foot of the Klein Drakensberg (Afrikaans for "Small Dragon Mountains" range), in the Limpopo province of South Africa, on the railway line from Tzaneen to Kaapmuiden.

See Afrikaans and Hoedspruit

Hookah

A hookah (from Hindustani: हुक़्क़ा (Devanagari), (Nastaleeq), IPA:; also see other names), also known as the ḡalyān (Persian: قلیان), is a single- or multi-stemmed instrument for vaporizing and smoking flavored tobacco (often Mu‘assel), or sometimes cannabis or opium, whose vapor or smoke is passed through a water basin—often glass-based—before inhalation.

See Afrikaans and Hookah

Hoopstad

The key town of Hoopstad is situated on the R700 Highway between Bloemfontein and the North West Province.

See Afrikaans and Hoopstad

Hotagterklip

Hotagterklip is a small hamlet on the South African coast, close to the village of Struisbaai in the Western Cape.

See Afrikaans and Hotagterklip

Hottentot (racial term)

Hottentot (British and South African English) is a term historically used of the Khoikhoi, the non-Bantu indigenous nomadic pastoralists of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Hottentot (racial term)

Huguenots

Huguenots (Les huguenots) are an ethnoreligious group of French Protestants who follow the Reformed tradition.

See Afrikaans and Huguenots

Idol (franchise)

Idols (also known as SuperStar in some countries) is a reality television singing competition format created by British television producer Simon Fuller and developed by FremantleMedia.

See Afrikaans and Idol (franchise)

Idols South Africa

Idols is a television show on the South African television network M-Net, based on the popular British show Pop Idol.

See Afrikaans and Idols South Africa

IJ (digraph)

IJ (lowercase ij) is a digraph of the letters i and j. Occurring in the Dutch language, it is sometimes considered a ligature, or even a letter in itselfalthough in most fonts that have a separate character for ij, the two composing parts are not connected but are separate glyphs, sometimes slightly kerned.

See Afrikaans and IJ (digraph)

Il Divo (album)

Il Divo is the self-titled debut studio album to be released by classical crossover vocal group Il Divo, formed by Simon Cowell in 2004.

See Afrikaans and Il Divo (album)

Illovo Beach

Illovo Beach is a small coastal resort on the banks of the Illovo River in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Illovo Beach

Impala

The impala; (Aepyceros melampus) is a medium-sized antelope found in eastern and southern Africa.

See Afrikaans and Impala

Index of language articles

This is a partial index of 773 Wikipedia articles treating natural languages, arranged alphabetically.

See Afrikaans and Index of language articles

Indo-European languages

The Indo-European languages are a language family of several hundred related languages and dialects.

See Afrikaans and Indo-European languages

Infinitive

Infinitive (abbreviated) is a grammatical term referring to certain verb forms existing in many languages, most often used as non-finite verbs.

See Afrikaans and Infinitive

Ingrid Jonker

Ingrid Jonker (19 September 1933 – 19 July 1965) (OIS), was a South African poet.

See Afrikaans and Ingrid Jonker

Inselberg

An inselberg or monadnock is an isolated rock hill, knob, ridge, or small mountain that rises abruptly from a gently sloping or virtually level surrounding plain.

See Afrikaans and Inselberg

Institutes of the Christian Religion

Institutes of the Christian Religion (Institutio Christianae Religionis) is John Calvin's seminal work of Protestant systematic theology.

See Afrikaans and Institutes of the Christian Religion

International English Language Testing System

The International English Language Testing System, or IELTS™, is an international standardized test of English language proficiency for non-native English language speakers.

See Afrikaans and International English Language Testing System

International vehicle registration code

The country in which a motor vehicle's vehicle registration plate was issued may be indicated by an international licence plate country code, formerly known as an International Registration Letter or International Circulation Mark. The distinguishing sign of the country of registration must be displayed on the rear of the vehicle.

See Afrikaans and International vehicle registration code

Irene, Gauteng

Irene /aɪˈriːniː/ eye-ree-nee is a small village south of Pretoria, Gauteng, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Irene, Gauteng

Isipingo

Isipingo is a town situated south of Durban in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Isipingo

ISO/IEC 8859

ISO/IEC 8859 is a joint ISO and IEC series of standards for 8-bit character encodings.

See Afrikaans and ISO/IEC 8859

ISO/IEC 8859-1

ISO/IEC 8859-1:1998, Information technology — 8-bit single-byte coded graphic character sets — Part 1: Latin alphabet No.

See Afrikaans and ISO/IEC 8859-1

ISO/IEC 8859-15

ISO/IEC 8859-15:1999, Information technology — 8-bit single-byte coded graphic character sets — Part 15: Latin alphabet No.

See Afrikaans and ISO/IEC 8859-15

J. B. M. Hertzog

General James Barry Munnik Hertzog, better known as Barry Hertzog or J. B. M. Hertzog (6 April 1866 – 21 November 1942), was a South African politician and soldier.

See Afrikaans and J. B. M. Hertzog

J. M. Coetzee

John Maxwell Coetzee (born 9 February 1940) is a South African novelist, essayist, linguist, translator and recipient of the 2003 Nobel Prize in Literature.

See Afrikaans and J. M. Coetzee

Jacaranda mimosifolia

Jacaranda mimosifolia is a sub-tropical tree native to south-central South America that has been widely planted elsewhere because of its beautiful and long-lasting blue flowers.

See Afrikaans and Jacaranda mimosifolia

Jaco

Jaco may refer to.

See Afrikaans and Jaco

Jacobsdal

Jacobsdal is a small farming town in the Free State province of South Africa with various crops under irrigation, such as grapes, potatoes, lucerne and groundnuts.

See Afrikaans and Jacobsdal

Jagersfontein

Jagersfontein is a small town in the Free State province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Jagersfontein

Jamie Uys

Jacobus Johannes Uys (30 May 1921 &ndash; 29 January 1996), better known as Jamie Uys, was a South African film director, best known for directing The Gods Must Be Crazy.

See Afrikaans and Jamie Uys

Jan Kempdorp

Jan Kempdorp is an agricultural town situated in the centre of the Vaalharts Irrigation Scheme in the Northern Cape province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Jan Kempdorp

January 15

No description.

See Afrikaans and January 15

Jeff Flake

Jeffry Lane Flake (born December 31, 1962) is an American politician serving as the junior United States Senator for Arizona, elected in 2012.

See Afrikaans and Jeff Flake

Jeremy Taylor (singer)

Jeremy Taylor (born 24 November 1937 in Newbury, Berkshire) is a retired English folk singer and songwriter who has spent much of his life in South Africa, originally as a teacher of English at St. Martin's School, Rosettenville in southern Johannesburg, but since 1994 has lived in Wales and in France.

See Afrikaans and Jeremy Taylor (singer)

Jim Reeves

James Travis Reeves (August 20, 1923July 31, 1964) was an American country and popular music singer-songwriter.

See Afrikaans and Jim Reeves

Joan Hambidge

Joan Helene Hambidge (born 11 September 1956 in Aliwal North, South Africa) (the English surname notwithstanding), is an Afrikaans poet, literary theorist and academic.

See Afrikaans and Joan Hambidge

Johannesburg

Johannesburg (also known as Jozi, Joburg and Egoli) is the largest city in South Africa and is one of the 50 largest urban areas in the world.

See Afrikaans and Johannesburg

John (given name)

John is a common masculine given name in the English language of originally Semitic origin.

See Afrikaans and John (given name)

John van Melle

John van Melle (11 February 1887 – 8 November 1953) was the pen name of a Dutch-born South African author.

See Afrikaans and John van Melle

Juana María de los Dolores de León Smith

Juana María de los Dolores de León Smith, Lady Smith (27 March 1798 – 12 October 1872) was the wife of General Sir Harry Smith, Governor of the Cape Colony.

See Afrikaans and Juana María de los Dolores de León Smith

Juǀ'hoan dialect

Juǀʼhoan (also rendered Zhuǀʼhõasi, Dzuǀʼoasi, Zû-ǀhoa, JuǀʼHoansi), or Southeastern ǃXuun (Southeastern Ju), is the southern variety of the !Kung dialect continuum, spoken in northeastern Namibia and the Northwest District of Botswana.

See Afrikaans and Juǀ'hoan dialect

Kaapse Klopse

The Kaapse Klopse (or simply Klopse) is a minstrel festival that takes place annually on 2 January and it is also referred to as Tweede Nuwe jaar (Second New Year), in Cape Town, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Kaapse Klopse

Kaffir (racial term)

Kaffir (alternatively kaffer; originally cafri) is an ethnic slur used to refer to a black person.

See Afrikaans and Kaffir (racial term)

Kaizer Chiefs F.C.

Kaizer Chiefs Football Club is a South African football club based in Johannesburg that plays in the Premier Soccer League.

See Afrikaans and Kaizer Chiefs F.C.

Kalkkop crater

Kalkkop is an impact crater which can be found on a private farm 50 kilometres south east of the town of Aberdeen, Eastern Cape, in the Eastern Cape Province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Kalkkop crater

Kamp Staaldraad

Kamp Staaldraad (Afrikaans words, translated idiomatically as Camp Barbed Wire) was a military-style "boot camp" organized as a "team building" exercise for the South African national rugby union team, the Springboks (or Boks), during their preparation for the 2003 Rugby World Cup (RWC).

See Afrikaans and Kamp Staaldraad

KaNgwane

KaNgwane was a bantustan in South Africa, intended by the apartheid government to be a semi-independent homeland for the Swazi people.

See Afrikaans and KaNgwane

Kannaland Local Municipality

Kannaland Municipality is a local municipality located within the Eden District Municipality in the Western Cape province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Kannaland Local Municipality

Karma and Effect

Karma and Effect is the third studio album by the South African rock band Seether.

See Afrikaans and Karma and Effect

Karoo

The Karoo (from a Khoikhoi word, possibly garo "desert") is a semidesert natural region of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Karoo

Karridene

Karridene is a small resort in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Karridene

Kempton Park, Gauteng

Kempton Park is a main place of Ekurhuleni in the Gauteng province, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Kempton Park, Gauteng

Kenaf

Kenaf, Hibiscus cannabinus, is a plant in the Malvaceae family also called Deccan hemp and Java jute.

See Afrikaans and Kenaf

Kenning

A kenning (Old Norse pronunciation:, Modern Icelandic pronunciation) is a type of circumlocution, in the form of a compound that employs figurative language in place of a more concrete single-word noun.

See Afrikaans and Kenning

Kestell

Kestell is a small maize farming town in the Free State province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Kestell

Khoemana

Khoemana, also known as Korana or Griqua, is a moribund Khoe language of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Khoemana

Khoikhoi

The Khoikhoi (updated orthography Khoekhoe, from Khoekhoegowab Khoekhoen; formerly also Hottentots"Hottentot, n. and adj." OED Online, Oxford University Press, March 2018, www.oed.com/view/Entry/88829. Accessed 13 May 2018. Citing G. S. Nienaber, 'The origin of the name “Hottentot” ', African Studies, 22:2 (1963), 65-90,. See also.) are the traditionally nomadic pastoralist non-Bantu indigenous population of southwestern Africa.

See Afrikaans and Khoikhoi

Khoisan

Khoisan, or according to the contemporary Khoekhoegowab orthography Khoesān (pronounced), is an artificial catch-all name for the so-called "non-Bantu" indigenous peoples of Southern Africa, combining the Khoekhoen (formerly "Khoikhoi") and the Sān or Sākhoen (also, in Afrikaans: Boesmans, or in English: Bushmen, after Dutch Boschjesmens; and Saake in the Nǁng language).

See Afrikaans and Khoisan

Khomas Region

Khomas is one of the fourteen regions of Namibia.

See Afrikaans and Khomas Region

Khwe language

Khwe (also rendered Kxoe, Khoe; or) is a dialect continuum of the Khoe family of Namibia, Angola, Botswana, South Africa, and parts of Zambia, with some 8,000 speakers.

See Afrikaans and Khwe language

Kimberley, Northern Cape

Kimberley is the capital and largest city of the Northern Cape Province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Kimberley, Northern Cape

Kinross, Western Australia

Kinross is a small suburb in the City of Joondalup located in the northern suburbs of Perth, Australia.

See Afrikaans and Kinross, Western Australia

Klipspringer

The klipspringer (Oreotragus oreotragus) is a small antelope found in eastern and southern Africa.

See Afrikaans and Klipspringer

Kloof

Kloof is a leafy upper-class suburb and small town, that includes a smaller area called Everton, in the greater Durban area of eThekwini in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Kloof

Kloofing

Kloofing is an adventure activity that typically involves the descent of a deep ravine or watercourse that may be dry or wet.

See Afrikaans and Kloofing

Knysna

Knysna (probably from a Khoikhoi word meaning "ferns") is a town with 51,078 inhabitants in the Western Cape Province of South Africa and is part of the Garden Route.

See Afrikaans and Knysna

Knysna Local Municipality

Knysna Local Municipality is a municipality part of Eden District Municipality located in the Western Cape Province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Knysna Local Municipality

Kobus (given name)

Kobus or Cobus is a Dutch and now primarily Afrikaans masculine given name, a short form (hypocorism) of the given name Jacobus.

See Afrikaans and Kobus (given name)

Koffiefontein

Koffiefontein is a small farming town in the Free State province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Koffiefontein

Kokstad

Kokstad is a town in the Harry Gwala District Municipality of KwaZulu-Natal Province, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Kokstad

Kommetjie

Kommetjie (Afrikaans for "small basin," approximately pronounced cawma-key) is a small town near Cape Town, in the Western Cape province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Kommetjie

Koos de la Rey

General Jacobus Herculaas de la Rey (22 October 1847 &ndash; 15 September 1914), usually known as Koos de la Rey, was a prominent Boer general during the Second Boer War.

See Afrikaans and Koos de la Rey

Koppies

Koppies is a small town (railway station) situated near the Renoster River in the Free State province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Koppies

Koster, North West

Koster is a small farming town situated on the watershed between the Orange and Limpopo Rivers in North West Province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Koster, North West

Kraal

Kraal (also spelled craal or kraul) is an Afrikaans and Dutch word (also used in South African English) for an enclosure for cattle or other livestock, located within an African settlement or village surrounded by a fence of thorn-bush branches, a palisade, mud wall, or other fencing, roughly circular in form.

See Afrikaans and Kraal

Kranskop

Kranskop is a small town that is situated on the edge of the Tugela River valley in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Kranskop

Kroonstad

Kroonstad (Afrikaans for "Crown City") is the third-largest city in the Free State (after Bloemfontein and Welkom) and lies two hours drive from Gauteng.

See Afrikaans and Kroonstad

Krugerrand

For the Ian McNabb album, see Krugerrands. The Krugerrand is a South African gold coin, first minted in 1967 to help market South African gold and produced by the South African Mint.

See Afrikaans and Krugerrand

Krugersdorp

Krugersdorp (Afrikaans for Kruger's town) is a mining city in the West Rand, Gauteng Province, South Africa founded in 1887 by Marthinus Pretorius.

See Afrikaans and Krugersdorp

Kudu

The kudus are two species of antelope of the genus Tragelaphus.

See Afrikaans and Kudu

Kuruman

Kuruman is a town with just over 13,000 inhabitants in the Northern Cape province of South Africa.

See Afrikaans and Kuruman

Kwaito

Kwaito is a music genre that emerged in Johannesburg, South Africa, during the 1990s.

See Afrikaans and Kwaito

KwaNdebele

KwaNdebele was a bantustan in South Africa, intended by the apartheid government as a semi-independent homeland for the Ndebele people.

See Afrikaans and KwaNdebele

KwaZulu

KwaZulu was a bantustan in South Africa, intended by the apartheid government as a semi-independent homeland for the Zulu people.

See Afrikaans and KwaZulu

KwaZulu-Natal

KwaZulu-Natal (also referred to as KZN 