AK&M 11 April 2024 12:02

The Australian-British concern Rio Tinto Group has signed a strategic partnership agreement with the British venture capital company Founders Factory. This is reported in a press release from Rio Tinto.

The agreement is aimed at improving the efficiency of the development and commercialization of advanced technologies in the mining industry, as well as improving the methods of mining through automation and economic diversification.

The creation of the first Founders Factory center in Perth (Australia) with the support of Rio Tinto and the Australian government is aimed at improving the rating of Western Australia as an innovation center that provides local enterprises with a platform to enter the international level.

Over three years, Rio Tinto intends to invest AUD$14.4 million to support startups to develop innovations in the field of mining safety, decarbonization, exploration and automation.

Startups participating in the program can benefit from investments within the framework of a four-month program managed by Founders Factory in order to accelerate the development of new products and enter the market.

As part of a parallel initiative, the Government of Western Australia has joined forces with Founders Factory to support environmental technology startups.

Founders Factory, previously, opened centers in London (UK), Johannesburg (South Africa) and New York (USA).

Rio Tinto Group is an Australian—British concern and the third largest multinational mining and metallurgical company in terms of sales. Rio Tinto includes two operating companies — Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc. The main regions of activity are Australia, Canada, the USA, Brazil, Mongolia, Guinea, Madagascar and South Africa. More than half of the company's sales are in China. The headquarters are located in Melbourne (Australia) and London (UK).

Founders Factory is engaged in the creation and financing of startups. The company provides founders with capital, expert operational support, technology and access to world-class corporate resources. The headquarters is located in London (United Kingdom).

More news is on the Telegram channel "Mergers and Acquisitions. AK&M».