Reggiana live scores, players, season schedule and today’s results are available on Sofascore.

Reggiana next match

Reggiana will play the next match against Sampdoria on Aug 24, 2024, 6:30:00 PM UTC in Serie B.

When the match starts, you will be able to follow Sampdoria vs Reggiana live score, standings, minute by minute updated live results and match statistics.

We may have video highlights with goals and news for some Reggiana matches, but only if they play their match in one of the most popular football leagues.

Reggiana previous match

Reggiana previous match was against Mantova in Serie B, the match ended in a draw (2 - 2).

Reggiana fixtures tab is showing the last 100 football matches with statistics and win/draw/lose icons.

There are also all Reggiana scheduled matches that they are going to play in the future.

Reggiana performance and form graph is a Sofascore unique algorithm that we are generating from the team's last 10 matches, statistics, detailed analysis and our own knowledge.

This graph may help predict future Reggiana matches.

Current Reggiana players

Forward: Cedric Gondo, Orji Okwonkwo, Luca Vido, Stefano Pettinari, Noa Kljajic, Matteo Maggio Midfielder: Manolo Portanova, Leo Štulac, Antonio Vergara, Alessandro Sersanti, Natan Girma, Luca Cigarini, Elvis Kabashi, Álex Blanco, Lorenzo Ignacchiti, Tobías Reinhart, Riccardo Fiamozzi, Shaibu Nuhu, Gianluca D'Angelo, Matteo Tessitori Defender: Filip Brekalo, Diego Stramaccioni, Yannis Nahounou, Mario Sampirisi, Andrea Meroni, Lorenzo Libutti, Oliver Urso, Paolo Rozzio, Giacomo Cavallini Goalkeeper: Francesco Bardi, Edoardo Motta, Alex Sposito

The current Reggiana roster, stats and player performance can be found on this page.

There are also statistics for each player in all competitions with all total played and started matches, minutes played, number of goals scored, number of cards and much more.

Reggiana top scorers list is updated live during every match.

You can click on players from the roster above and see available personal information such as nationality, date of birth, height, preferred foot, position, player value, transfer history etc.