Senator Boozman talking about Farm Bill. Source: Ualrpublicradio

John Nicholas Boozman is an American Politician and a former optometrist. He is currently serving as a senior United States senator from the state of Arkansas. He was the U.S. representative for the 3rd congressional district of Arkansas from 2001 to 2011. He is a member of the Republican party.

Senator John Boozman Career

He was born in Louisiana and raised in Arkansas. His father served in the United States Air Force as a Master Sergeant. John Boozman graduated from Northside High School in Arkansas. He played football at the University of Arkansas for the Arkansas Razorbacks.

Boozman graduated from the Southern College of Optometry in 1977. He started his private practice in the same year as the Co-founder of Boozman-Hof Regional Eye Clinic in Rogers. He worked as a volunteer optometrist at an area clinic and provided his services to low-income families.

John Boozman started his career in the U.S. senate in 2001 and won a special election. He served in the position till his senate election in 2010.

Boozman served as an Assistant Whip during the 108th Congress. He was named to the Speaker’s Task Force in 2003 with a mission for a Drug-Free America. This task force helped to author legislation regarding recreational drugs.

Boozman resigned his House seat to run for Senate in 2019. He defeated the Democratic official Blanche Lincoln by a 21 point margin in the general elections.

Senator John Boozman Accomplishments

(John Boozman would not support the GOP effort to overturn the election. Source: Newsweek)

In 2003, Boozman authored legislation to create a Drug-free America. He was praised for the efforts he made to stop illegal drugs from reaching kids.

Boozman chaired the Veterans Affairs Economic Opportunity Subcommittee in the 109th Congress. He passed legislation to honor the services and sacrifice of the U.S. Veterans and help them get more benefits.

Senator John Boozman Criticism

(With plans to run for re-election, Sen. Boozman is skeptical of impeachment, supportive of Iran’s action. Source: Talkbusiness)

Boozman voted in the favour of the Iraq Resolution in 2002 which led to the Iraq War. This war led to the death of 4,500 Americans in 2011. Boozman said that the war was worth it. He was heavily criticized by the people of America.

Senator John Boozman Networth

(Senator John Boozman’s net worth 2021. Source: Glusea)

According to Incomepedia, Senator John Boozman net worth is estimated at around $3.5 million.

Final Thoughts

Boozman seems to have contributed to the welfare of the Veteran groups and passing the bill for Drug-free America to keep drugs away from children. But, Boozman was criticized for the Iraq War that many thought was a mistake.

Reference

https://talkbusiness.net/2020/01/with-plans-to-run-for-re-election-sen-boozman-skeptical-of-impeachment-supportive-of-iran-action/

https://www.ualrpublicradio.org/post/senator-boozman-calls-farm-bill-good-compromise-will-benefit-arkansas

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SKOZ5IonLrI

Related Content:

Arkansas Senator John Boozman Bio | Contact | Quotes

Arkansas Senator Tom Cotton Bio | Contact | Quotes

Arkansas Facts and Weird Laws

Similar Content