Long-running EastEnders character Sonia Fowler's baby father may not be who we think it is, super fans have claimed.

Sonia (Natalie Cassidy) has been in a relationship with teacher Reiss Colwell (Jonny Freeman) since 2023.

After a blip the couple began to try for children, but faced numerous obstacles - including Reiss' low sperm count.

They eventually embarked on an IVF journey but that had also been plagued with difficulty as Sonia was diagnosed with a thin womb lining.

However, in Monday's episode, Sonia shared some unexpected and miraculous news with Reiss: she is pregnant!

It came at just the right time as Sonia had became despondent after learning that her adoptive niece Whitney Dean (Shona McGarty) was pregnant.

Despite the happy news, EastEnders fans can't help being cynical - they are convinced that Reiss is not the father of Sonia's baby.

Instead, they have decided that the actual father is Sonia's twice ex-husband Martin Fowler (James Bye).

Sonia and Martin have been married twice and share one child, daughter Bex Fowler, whom they initially gave up for adoption.

Several viewers took to Reddit to share their thoughts and fan theories about the unfolding storyline between Sonia and Reiss, according to the Daily Star.

They wrote: 'Let Sonia get pregnant, but naturally and by someone else. I would honestly root for Martin, even if they don't get back together'; 'Imagine if she and Martin had a one night stand all this time';

'Plot twist she’s been with Martin all this time'; 'Sonia deserves to be with someone like Martin'.

The publication also asked popular AI tool Gemini if Sonia could be pregnant with her and Martin's second child.

The chatbot replied: 'Likely.'

Gemini even outlined why this would make for a 'good' plot twist.

It said: 'Unexpected twist: If Sonia is indeed pregnant with Martin's baby, it would be a shocking turn of events for viewers. It adds a layer of complexity to her relationship with Reiss and Martin, both romantically and as friends.

Gemini also pointed out that another reason this could work well for the storyline would be the emotional drama.

It explained: 'The storyline could explore the strength of Sonia and Martin's bond, even though they are no longer together. A pregnancy with Martin would also reignite old feelings and create friction between all three characters.'