When a soap character knocks on an unfamiliar door, viewers are usually in for a surprise. In the case of tonight’s EastEnders, we had a nice one, as the door was opened by Sonia Fowler.

Carol, Sonia’s mum, has just been diagnosed with breast cancer and she went off to her daughter’s to get a bit of peace and quiet. Sonia seems to be in a state of domestic bliss but it wasn’t always this way. Here are the top six things you need to know about Sonia Fowler:

1. Sonia managed to give birth without ever knowing she was pregnant. Apparently not something that only happens in soap land. After a one night stand with Martin Fowler, nine months later Sonia was unexpectedly giving birth.

As if a teenage pregnancy wasn’t shocking enough, poor Sonia had to put up with Mo Harris as a midwife. No wonder she eventually became a nurse. Sonia decided to give her daughter up for adoption:

2) Sonia’s one true love was Jamie Mitchell. Every so often the default Mitchell personality of grumpy and violent gets a quirk and we get someone quiet and lovable.

Such was the case with Jamie, a tragic youth who’s Dad was an alcoholic and cousin of Phil. After a spell in care, Jamie ended up with Phil’s other cousin, hapless Billy Mitchell. Perhaps such a loving romance was always doomed to fail, but Jamie being run down by Martin Fowler on a joy ride proved the definitive end to Jamie and Sonia’s relationship:

3) Sonia married the man who killed her first love. Martin spent time in prison for killing Jamie, and came out wanting to make amends.

What no one quite expected (least of all Martin’s Mum, Pauline) was that Sonia would not only forgive the father of her child for killing Jamie but would begin a passionate affair with him. Against considerable odds, the pair fell in love and got married, though the marriage was hardly plain sailing:

4) EastEnders has made a vast improvement with its LGBT characters in recent times, but back in Sonia’s day, a character changed their sexuality to suit storylines.

When Sonia began an extramarital affair with her colleague Naomi, critics and fans scoffed in disbelief. Sonia’s brief dabbling with lesbianism tends not to be referred to onscreen, but we shall see what happens now Sonia has returned. After all, Tina Carter’s single…

5) Sonia is finally living happily with her daughter Rebecca. After giving the girl (who she named Chloe) up for adoption, Sonia thought she had lost her daughter for good.

She went behind her husband’s back to track Chloe, now called Rebecca, down, and abducted her. Sonia returned Rebecca but eventually became her legal guardian after Rebecca’s foster parents died in a car crash:

And Number six? Sonia’s trumpet of course! Sadly, the internet has not yielded a clip of the brass maestro in action, but your ears will no doubt be grateful for that. Considering Sonia learning the trumpet as a child was only supposed to be a minor subplot, it might be galling that this is the first thing people think of when Sonia Fowler is mentioned.

With Rebecca now a teenager and Martin out of the picture, Sonia is a blank canvas for the writers to have some fun with. Let’s just hope that her storylines are more realistic and less reliant on shock tactics than they used to be.

EastEnders: ‘Racist’ Shabnam 2.0 overshadows Sonia Fowler’s return to Albert Sqaure