The controversial Russian novelist Alexander Solzhenitsyn, banned in his homeland, was awarded the 1970 Nobel Prize for literature today. The Swedish Academy of Letters said it had made the award to the 52-year-old writer for the "ethical force with which he has pursued the indispensable traditions of Russian literature." The prize has a cash award of $74,500. Solzhenitsyn had been a leading candidate for the award for several years.

Solzhenitsyn, expelled from the Soviet Writers' Union this year, was one of two candidates remaining when the Academy voted. The other was Australian novelist Patrick White, 58, who missed out for the second time. Last year the choice was between White and French-Irish novelist and playwright Samuel Beckett. Beckett gained the prize.

The award to Solzhenitsyn recalls the sensational case of the Russian writer Boris Pasternak, who was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1958 but was forced by the Soviet Government to refuse it.

Solzhenitsyn spent eight years in labour camps and three in banishment for his criticism of Stalin.

Solzhenitsyn was captured while commanding a Soviet artillery battery in 1945 and sent to a German labour camp. There he wrote a letter criticising the military capabilities of "the whiskered one" an obvious reference to Stalin.

Someone in authority saw the letter and when Solzhenitsyn was "liberated" it turned out to be for an 11-year term in a Soviet detention camp.

His experiences there provided the background for "One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich," a novel about a typical day of a 3,653-day sentence being served by a Russian peasant.

Solzhenitsyn told a Swedish correspondent he would try to travel to Stockholm.

"I am grateful for the decision," Solzhenitsyn told the correspondent by telephone, "I intend to go to Stockholm to receive the award personally as far as this is dependent on me."

He said he was in good health, and "will not suffer from the journey."

As it turned out, Solzhenitsyn would not receive the award in 1970 because he feared Soviet authorities would not allow him to return. Instead, Solzhenitsyn received his prize at the 1974 ceremony after he had been expelled from the Soviet Union. He eventually returned with his citizenship restored in 1990.