The bearer of hope, The son of Arab countries, the voice of woeful, the lover of Balqis and the national poet of Syria, Nizar Qabbani was born in Damascus on 21st march 1923. He was a Syrian diplomat and a writer who revolutionized the Arab poetry. He started with love poetry but then the aggravating circumstances gravitated him to write some heart-wrenching and unforgettable poems. His poems were the reflections of the brave and beautiful women of Arab. His words were drenched in essence of endearment and tenderness. His verses were the voices of lament of the grieved. He despised the fascist regimes and spoke against the foreign imperialism and colonialism. Alas! The pretentious owners of might feared pens rather than swords.

‘Sultan, Your wild dogs have torn my clothes. Your spies hound me. Their eyes hound me. Their noses hound me. Their feet hound me. They hound me like Fate.

Sultan, When I came close to your walls and talked about my pains, Your soldiers beat me with their boots, forced me to eat my shoes. Sultan, You lost two wars, Half of our people are without tongues, What’s the use of a people without tongues? Half of our people are trapped like ants and rats between walls.’

He was born in a middle-class household. He got his law degree from Damascus University. He started writing poetry in his teens. During his law degree, he wrote a series of poems named collectively as “The Brunette Told Me”. These were mainly love poems that were initially not accepted in the conservative Damascus city. He openly talked about women. However, when his heart-felt words reached the ministry of education and Munir Al Ajlani wrote the preface of the book. He had to face a lot of criticism about his praise-worthy words about the women. However he was never scared to voice his opinions. He was bold and courageous.

Our shouting is louder than our actions,

Our swords are taller than us,

This is our tragedy.

After his graduation he remained in service for several years. He was the vice secretary of United Arab Republic. He blessed Beirut, Jerusalem, Damascus, Istanbul, Baghdad with his presence and worked an extra mile to safe guard the interests of the people. He was a fierce and valiant opponent of dictatorship. However, he left diplomacy in 1966. Beirut, Lebanon then became his new home. He belonged to the entire middle eastern territory. For he wrote Egypt writes, Lebanon prints, Iraq reads.

“Every Arab city is my mother, Damascus, Beirut, Cairo, Baghdad, Khartoum, Casablanca, Benghazi, Tunis, Amman, Riyadh, Kuwait, Algiers, Abu Dhabi, and their sisters: These are my family tree. All of these cities brought me forth from their wombs, cave me to suck from their breasts. And filled my pockets with grapes, figs and plums. All of them shook their date palms for me so that I could eat. Opened their skies for me like a blue notebook so that I could write. For this reason, I do not enter an Arab city without it calling me, “My son.” I do not knock on the gate of an Arab city without finding my childhood bed waiting for me. No Arab city bleeds without my bleeding with it.”

His sister suicided when he was 15. It is stated that she abandoned the sojourn because she couldn’t marry the person she loved. This incident left a huge impact on Nazir’s poetry. After this incident he started writing about chauvinism and the social discriminations against emotions and feelings. He even wrote about the state of weltschmerz (the state of worldly dreariness) prevailing in the streets and hovering over the minds of people amidst the lunacy. When the strikes, blasts doubled in number people fell prey to the addiction of hashish and numbed themselves to the pain. They found solace in the moonlight away from the the scorching harsh reality of the day. They resorted to the drugs for they escaped with their families and loved ones into the world not caged or governed by haughty people. His famous poem “Bread, Hashish, Moon” is as follows:

What does that luminous disc

Do to my homeland?

The land of the prophets,

The land of the simple,

The chewers of tobacco, the dealers in drug?

What does the moon do to us,

That we squander our valor

And live only to beg from Heaven?

What has the heaven

For the lazy and the weak?

When the moon comes to life they are changed to

corpses

He married twice in his life. The first one was Zahra Aqbiq, his cousin and the second was Balqis Al Pawi, an Iraqi school teacher. He met Balqis at a poetry recital at Baghdad. Balqis was a committed activist who stood in solidarity with the Palestinians. At the end of the festival, Nizar dedicated one of his verses to his sweetheart: “What is this beautiful face that I see in Adamiya”, he wrote, referring to a neighborhood of Baghdad, “if Heaven saw it, it would be jealous”.

In the summer

I stretch out on the shore

And think of you

Had I told the sea

What I felt for you,

It would have left its shores,

Its shells,

Its fish.

The cruel world couldn’t tolerate her warmth and devoured her. She died in a Beirut explosion. A car was filled with explosives. It passed through the embassy gate and parked in the basement, and moments later, the entire three-storey building collapsed. Her body was then extracted form the ruins of the collapsed building along with her classmates.

Your love entered me…my lady

into the cities of sadness

and I before you, never entered

the cities of sadness

I did not know…

that tears are the person

that a person without sadness

is only a shadow of a person…

Nizar’s world lost soul and essence and he never wrote about love again.

داستاں ختم ہونے والی ہے تم میری آخری محبت ہو

جون ایلی

Translation: the story is about to end, you are my last love by John Elia

Nizar’s pain wrote about her departure as follows: Thank you for killing my Balqis. Go, have a drink, On the martyr’s grave’s brink. My poem is assassinated. For no nation but ours has such powers! Balqis was the tallest of all Iraqi palm trees. She gracefully walks As if followed by oryx and peacocks. Balqis, you’re my pain. The poem’s pain when thumbed. How can plants sprout after your hair’s rot? They killed you. What an Arab nation that enjoys the nightingales’ assassination? In the cup of coffee, In the door key, In the terrace flowers, In the papers, In the alphabet. Here we are, Balqis back again in Jahiliyyah(ancient Arab times).Back to savagery. To backwardness, hideousness and meanness. Back again to barbarism. Where writing is a journey between fragments. Balqis. Would you shortly knock at the door? Would you take off your winter coat? Would you come smiling?

Balqis. It’s time for perfumed, well stored Iraqi tea. My giraffe, who will serve it gracefully? Who moved Euphrates to our house? Who moved Resafa and flowers of Tigris to our house? Balqis, I ask for forgiveness for I now that your killers’ aim were to kill my words. After you poetry will seal and womanhood is out of place

Grief penetrates me. Beirut killed you, About its crime, it never knew. Beirut loved you; however, It ignored killing its lover. And put out moonlight forever. You’re unmatchable. A unique piece.

On curtains, On chairs, On cutlery, Rest You show up From the mirrors, From the rings, From the poem, From the candles, From the cups, From the purple wine. Balqis: My princess you are Burning in a tribe-against- tribe war.

Among piles of victims, we look for a falling star. A body shattered as a mirror. We wonder, my love: Is it yours or Arabism’s grave? If they blew you up, It’s because all funerals start in Karbala And end in Karbala. No more history to read, I’m warned.

The horrors of Beirut escalated in 1980s and Nizar was sent to exile in London. To enslave a country , the authoritarians; the intellects should be banished first because they are the conveyors of hope and resilience. The same happened in Lebanon. The nature of his poetry shifted drastically towards inhumane occupation of The Land Of The Prophets; the land that is dear to people form all the religions. How could people let the children of middle-east down by funding the operations against them? Nazir reflected the misery and the suffrage of the civilians in his words. He unveiled the regimes against the oppressed and opposed all forms of violence perpetrated by so-called super powers.

My grieved country,

In a flash

You changed me from a poet who wrote love poems

To a poet who writes with a knife.

He died at the ripe age of 75 due to a heart attack. Hafiz Assad, the dictator of Damascus at that time sent a plane to bury his body according to his will. He did not get much appreciation in his life. However his words left an ever lasting impression in the world and become a beacon for the fighters of freedom and admirers of beauty. He was awarded with the Al-Owais award for cultural and scientific achievements. A road in Damascus was named after him. Ending the article with one of my most favorite poem by Nizar Qabbani:

My son sits at the edge of my bed

and asks me to recite a poem,

A tear falls from my eyes onto the pillow.

My son licks it up, astonished, saying:

‘But this is a tear, father, not a poem!’

And I tell him:

‘When you grow up, my son,

and read the diwan of Arabic poetry

you’ll discover that the word and the tear are twins

and the Arabic poem

is no more than a tear wept by writing fingers.