Sold Out – Sign Up for Back in Stock Email Alerts

Benachrichtigen Sie mich, wenn der Artikel wieder verfügbar ist

Häkchen Icon Vielen Dank. Ihre Benachrichtigung wurde registriert.

Es wird eine gültige E-Mail Adresse benötigt.

By entering your Email Address you agree to receive marketing emails from us.

Selling Vinyl Since 1985. Over 15,000 5 Star Reviews.

THE MOVIELIFE Forty Hour Train Back To Penn (Rare 2014 US 11-track LP, with picture sleeve and lyric inner, pressed on Red Vinyl and limited to 769 copies. Classic third album from the Long Island punk rock band, originally released in 2003 and displayed a cleaner sound than their previous efforts thanks to the meticulous production of Brian McTernan, but gave way to timeless tracks such as Jamestown, Jamaica Next, Kelly Song and Face or Kneecaps. This copy has some very minor shelf wear from storage, but the vinyl appears unplayed. Hard to find on the open market now, this charming album deserves a place in any alternative or punk collection. Recommended)

TRACKLISTING AND EXTRA INFORMATION

A1 Face Or Kneecaps

A2 Jamestown

A3 Spanaway

A4 Kelly Song

A5 Takin' It Out And Choppin' It Up

B6 Scary

B7 Hey

B8 Jamaica Street

B9 It's Something

B10 Keep Never Changing

B11 Ship To Shore

Artist - The Movielife (click link for complete listing)

Title - Forty Hour Train Back To Penn (click link for more of the same title)

Year of Release - 2014

Format - vinyl LP album (LP record)

Record Label - Mutant League

Catalogue No - ML006 (click link for more)

Country of Origin - United States (USA)

Language - Regardless of country of origin all tracks are sung in English, unless otherwise stated in our description.

Additional info - Deleted, Picture Sleeve

Global Trade Item Number (GTIN) - 5053201249155

Condition - This item is in Excellent condition or better (unless it says otherwise in the above description). We buy items as close to Mint condition as possible and many will be unplayed and as close to new as you could hope to find. Irrespective of the source, all of our collectables meet our strict grading and are 100% guaranteed. Click here for more info.

RareVinyl.com Ref No - MV0LPFO805221

GENRES

Indie.

REFERENCE

Email - sales@rarevinyl.com to contact our sales team.

RareVinyl.com Reference Number - MV0LPFO805221

SELL TO US

Got vinyl records, CDs or music memorabilia to sell? – Sell to us at our buying site https://vinyl-wanted.com