The Movielife Concert Tickets

Hear a musical fantasy with The Movielife tickets. The punk rock band hails from Long Island, N.Y., and creates stunning soundscapes that demand your attention. They hit the scene in the late 1990s, introducing the world to their hardcore emo-infused concept. The Movielife's debut record, It's Go Time, dropped in 1999 and got the industry buzzing. Early in their career, they toured alongside acts such as The Mighty Mighty Bosstones and made a name for themselves on the road. The band experienced some changes to its lineup over the years, but the quality of the music and musicianship has remained constant.

Touring members of The Movielife have included Vinnie Caruana, Brandon Reily, Brent Romnes and other dynamic musicians. Together, they have taken the music scene by storm with their invigorating songs. Their extensive catalog is brimming with tunes like “This Time Next Year,” “Face or Kneecaps,” “Walking on Glass” and “10 Seconds Too Late.” Buy The Movielife tickets and catch the group on stage. Their music is a hit on streaming digital platforms, and there is nothing like hearing it performed live and loud. You can catch them performing at a slew of venues and multi-artist events, such as the Adjacent Music Festival at Atlantic City Beach in Atlantic City, N.J.

How much are The Movielife tickets?

The average price of a The Movielife concert ticket is around $97 per ticket. If you’re looking for cheap The Movielife tickets, you’ll find better prices for cheap tickets in the upper levels furthest from the stage. Discount tickets that are farthest from the stage will typically be under $49. If you are looking for premium seating or VIP tickets, you can expect to pay over $150 per ticket in most cases.

When do The Movielife tickets go on sale?

Typically, The Movielife concert tour tickets go on sale 4-6 months prior to the performance and sometimes even a year in advance. Once the tour dates and concert schedule is announced, you can check our event calendar to find your perfect date and venue. The Movielife concert tickets will typically be available within 24-48 hours of a tour announcement. There is never a need for a presale code. Why wait for the public on sale when you can secure your seats today.

The Movielife 2024 Tour Dates

The Movielife tour dates vary from year to year. In most cases, tours tend to be 6-12 months but can extend over multiple years especially if it is a final tour. The Movielife concert schedule will typically have 25-50 tour dates.

There also can be a performance at music festivals across the country including Coachella, Lollapalooza and Bonnaroo Music Festival. Bonnaroo is held in Manchester, Tennessee. Coachella is held at Empire Polo Fields in Indio, California and Lollapalooza in the United States is held at Grant Park in Chicago, Illinois. It's easy to find seats to The Movielife tour when you shop with us. Shopping with TicketSmarter even makes it easier to get into the venue. Our mobile transfer The Movielife tour tickets let you skip past the box office line and head right for your seats.

Songs from the The Movielife Tour Setlist

The Movielife's setlist while performing in London , ENG at “O2 Academy Islington” included the following songs:

Forty Hour Train Back to Penn

Face or Kneecaps

Jamestown

Spanaway

Kelly Song

Takin' It Out and Choppin' It Up

Scary

Hey

Jamaica Next

It's Something

Keep Never Changing

Ship to Shore

I Hope You Die Soon

10 Seconds Too Late

This Time Next Year

Walking on Glass

Single White Female

Pinky Swear

Sailor Tattoos

Hand Grenade

Source: Setlist.fm