Finland. Vaino-Linna-1961-winter. Public domain image from Helsingin S...

Photograph of the Finnish writer Väinö Linna in Tampere center. To the left, “Pankkiauto,” presumably an ambulatory bank office.

Eraunio1961, officer portrait, Finnish military

Major, later colonel Esko Erik Raunio Public domain photograph - portrait of an officer in military uniform, free to use, no copyright restrictions image - Picryl description

Forssell-Haque-1961, Finnish actress portrait

Publicity photograph for the Helsinki production of Miracle Worker with Kyllikki Forssell (left) as Anne Sullivan and Nora Haque as Helen Keller at the National Theatre of Finland.

G-H-von-Wright-1961, Finnish writer, Finnish architect

Photograph of the Finnish philosopher G. H. von Wright at his summer estate in Ingå (Inkoo), on Vålö island.

Inkeri-Anttila-1961, University of Helsinki, Finland

Photograph of the Finnish lawyer Inkeri Anttila (1916–2013). Photograph taken after her inaugural lecture as a newly appointed professor of criminal law at the University of Helsinki. She is shown here with he ... More

Kari-Tuomisaari-1961, Finnish composer, musician

Photograph of the Finnish musician/lyricist Kari Tuomisaari (1934–) at home with his children, playing an EP record.

Lgheinrichs1961, officer portrait, Finnish military

Lieutenant Colonel, later Major General Lars Gunnar Heinrichs in 1961 Public domain photograph - portrait of an officer in military uniform, free to use, no copyright restrictions image - Picryl description

Olavi-Honka-1961 - Helsinki, Finland

Photograph of Veikko Vennamo (on the left) and the Finnish Rural party in a meeting with Olavi Honka, presidential candidate (on the right).

Olli-Lehto-1962, University of Helsinki, Finland

Photograph of the Finnish mathematician Olli Lehto (1925–2020) with a computer at the Cable Factory (Suomen Kaapelitehdas Oy) in Helsinki.

Paavo-Berglund-1961, Finnish architect

Photograph of the Finnish conductor Paavo Berglund (to the right) with the violinist Heikki Louhivuori.

Pentti-Nikula-1962, portrait, Finland

Photograph of the Finnish pole vaulter Pentti Nikula (1939–). This dramatic shot from autumn 1961 was selected "Press Photo of the Year" in Finland, 1962. Photographed in Otahalli, Espoo.

Stravinski-1961-Helsinki, Finnish architect

Photograph of the composer Igor Stravinsky visiting Helsinki, Finland, in 1961. From right to left: Stravinsky, Kai Maasalo, Robert Craft. Here they are leaving Finland. Photographed at Seutula airport.

Vappu-Heinonen-1961 - Helsinki, Finland

Photograph of the Finnish Member of Parliament Vappu Heinonen (sitting) who has received a seat belt from Talja organization as a part of its traffic safety campaign.