Ladies & Gents:

Has anyone read the book "American Iron 1607-1900" by Robert B. Gordon ?

"....ambitious, comprehensive survey of iron technology in America from the colonial period to the industries demise at about the turn of the 20th century."

Given the date range, they have to be talking about cast and wrought iron.

Can anyone on the forum give a review or opinion about this book? I have a chance to buy a copy, but it's sight-unseen with regard to content.

Why am I interested? I live in a region with some early history of ironmaking. There are several ruins of iron furnaces within 100 miles of here, and some abandoned iron mines. (Notably the Mahopac Mines and the Tilly Foster Mine in Putnam County, NY.) I'm not all that far north from New Jersey's famous Pine Barrens, where Bog Iron was found in abundance.

John Ruth

Ladies & Gents:

Has anyone read the book "American Iron 1607-1900" by Robert B. Gordon ?

"....ambitious, comprehensive survey of iron technology in America from the colonial period to the industries demise at about the turn of the 20th century."

Given the date range, they have to be talking about cast and wrought iron.

Can anyone on the forum give a review or opinion about this book? I have a chance to buy a copy, but it's sight-unseen with regard to content.

Why am I interested? I live in a region with some early history of ironmaking. There are several ruins of iron furnaces within 100 miles of here, and some abandoned iron mines. (Notably the Mahopac Mines and the Tilly Foster Mine in Putnam County, NY.) I'm not all that far north from New Jersey's famous Pine Barrens, where Bog Iron was found in abundance.

John Ruth

check it out on Google Books American Iron, 1607-1900 - Google Books

I've been to the Saugus Iron Works, very impressive! According to the park guide it's where iron making in North America started and basically the start of industrial manufacturing. They imported skilled iron makers from England, they were well paid and rowdy, much to the consternation of the Puritans! The charcoal makers were Scotish captives from the English civil war (Oliver Cromwell) that the park guide said were "Scotish slaves" that were eventually freed. They used local bog iron, the flux was a mineral quarried close by in Nahant and hardwood charcoal. The antique slag heap is still there, you can walk out on it. The park is now in the middle of a residential neighborhood in Saugus. You can see some of this on Google earth.

"American Iron 1607-1900" by Robert B. Gordon

After reading the responses to my question, and sampling the book on the Google Books website, I decided to cough up the money and buy a copy, which I just received. (Though Google Books is fun, there's nothing like having a copy in your hand! Except maybe if you are searching for something that's not in the index.)

Paging through it, without yet having had time to read it through, it looks like a winner for people interested in the history of technology in the USA and in INdustrial Archeology.

There's an old photo of the Greenwood #2 furnace at Arden, NY which still stands and is seen every day by thousands of people passing by on the NY State Thruway (I-87). The old photo shows some of the ancillary buildings which are no longer standing, so it casts a new perspective on the site. I was not aware that the iron from this furnace went to the West Point Foundry in Cold Spring, NY.

One interesting aspect of the history in this book is a steady progress in what we would today call "energy conservation" and "reduction of waste". Not long after the hot-blast furnace was developed, they switched from separately-fired air heaters to using waste heat from the furnace to heat the blast. Likewise, it was realized fairly early that wood alcohol could be obtained while making charcoal, rather than just releasing all the distillation products.

I purchased my copy from Edward R. Hamilton Bookseller Co. (EdwardRHamilton.com) with whom I've been doing business for decades as a very satisfied customer. I believe they still have it in stock, but act quickly if you want a copy because Hamilton deals in remainders and overstocks, so titles usually cannot be backordered from them.

John Ruth

North jersey iron

SB34, I see that you are from central NJ. You should try to get hold of a book called "Vanishing Ironworks of the Ramapos" by James Ransom. Most of these books are in non-circulating reference collections of NJ libraries. This is IMHO the best reference on colonial ironworks in northern NJ ever.

When Mr Ransom passed away a few years ago, this book (long out of print) went from $25 to $250 on Alibris. I waited until I found a copy for $108 and have not regretted one penny. If you have any interest in NJ iron industry, you need to read this book at some point.

I recently acquired a shaper made by George Juengst in Croton Falls, NY around 1900. His factory was located where the Croton reservoir is now. It would be interesting to know from where he purchased the iron to make his castings. Or if he acquired his castings from some local foundry.

I am originally from Westchester County, and when I lived there I had know idea that there once was a machine tool industry so close by.

1. A hamlet of Croton Falls still exists, clustered around a Metro-North Commuter RR Harlem Line station. (Formerly the New York Central RR) I believe this hamlet is in the town of Somers, NY, which likely has a historical society and certainly has a Chamber of Commerce.

This is, I believe, a "relocated" town because the original was, as you said, inundated.

2. Nearest foundry I know of would have been the West Point Foundry in Cold Spring, NY. This is the subject of another thread in this forum. Second closest foundry I know of would have been Clove Furnace in Beekman, NY. (Ruins still exist, on private property.)

3. Iron mines, as opposed to foundrys/furnaces, existed as close as Brewster NY (Tilly Foster mine and others) and Mahopac Mines, on the northern side of Lake Mahopac.

S.B.34,

Here is a link where it shows Peekskill Furnace Company in Westchester County

Directory of Iron and Steel Works of the United States and Canada

From this book

Directory of Iron and Steel Works of the United States and Canada

Directory of Iron and Steel Works of the United States and Canada : American Iron and Steel Institute : Free Download & Streaming : Internet Archive

I had done a search the other day to see if I could find the other books mentioned in this thread .

There are several more editions in this search

Internet Archive Search: Iron Works

If you scroll through the other pages of the search you will find several books on iron and steel making that may be of interest.

There is a lot of unrelated stuff there too but I find that is just the way the archive.org search engine seems to work.

Regards,

Jim

Jim,

Very interesting. Peekskill furnace is shown. Two different places called "Clove" are shown - one being the furnace in Dutchess County and another at Greenwood in Orange County.

Now, have we really answered Dinosaur's question by providing the name of a local foundry which was in operation in the correct range of years to provide castings or at least iron for his Juengst shaper? I'm of the view that we haven't yet answered the question, because the iron furnaces we're citing were not operating in the years when a "modern" shaper would be made. (Posible exception being West Point Foundry)

I recommend that Dinosaur present his question to the Somers (NY) Historical Society:

Somers Historical Society Home Page

There's an old map on that website which shows Croton Falls.

Dinosaur - Do you have any idea when this shaper was made? Is Juengst listed in Cope's Planer Shaper and Slotter book?

JRR

SouthBendModel34 and Dinosaur,

I don't have anything to add about the original topic, but I'm another owner (caretaker?) of a Juengst & Sons shaper. I posted a thread about it back in 2007:

http://www.practicalmachinist.com/vb/antique-machinery-history/juengst-sons-shaper-111571/

Since that post, I found my shaper is SN 18 and since its drive mechanism is very close to the 1884 patent I bet it was built in late 1884 or early 1885. There was a discussion about these shapers, including another owner, in the Yahoo Metal_Shapers group back in 2007. It included the whereabouts of 3 of these back then.

If you do a search for "juengst" here, you'll find a few of these shapers mentioned. You can sort of go by the drive mechanism of these for dating them, comparing the mechanism to patents by the Juengst clan.

Cope mentions Juengst & Sons on p95 and again on the top of p151.

Welcome to the Juengst Shapers Club, Dinosaur!

Irby