PORTLAND, Ore., Aug. 9, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- RENTRAK CORPORATION (NASDAQ: RENT), the leader in multi-screen media measurement serving the advertising, television and entertainment industries, today announced the movie industry's box office measurement service, International Box Office Essentials™, will begin collecting daily theatrical information for six new countries including, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama. Entry into these markets further expands Rentrak's reach into Latin America which already includes Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Peru and Venezuela.

(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20111007/MM82941LOGO)

"Rentrak is proud to add six new countries to our International Box Office Essentials (IBOE) service which allows Studios to easily determine film results within a single interface. By establishing the IBOE service in these new countries, Rentrak is able to better serve our worldwide studio clients while providing local distributors and exhibitors with a product that is used globally," said Ron Giambra, Rentrak's President of Theatrical Worldwide.

Rentrak's Box Office Essentials® and International Box Office Essentials are the theatrical industry's source for comprehensive global box office intelligence and are used by every studio in the United States as well as many independent distribution entities. Boasting a global footprint of the worldwide theatrical market, Rentrak is able to provide its clients with real-time box office intelligence, streamlined through one unique system, which allows users to view online reports from anywhere around the world.

About Rentrak Corporation

Rentrak (NASDAQ: RENT) is a global digital media measurement and research company, serving the most recognizable companies in the entertainment industry. With a reach across numerous platforms including box office, multi-screen television and home video, Rentrak has developed more efficient metrics to be used as database currencies for the evaluation and selling of media. Rentrak is headquartered in Portland, Oregon, with additional U.S. and international offices. For more information on Rentrak, please visit www.rentrak.com.

RENTB

Contacts for Rentrak Corporation:

Sallie Olmsted / Amanda Bialek

Office: 310-854-8124 / 310-854-8151

E-mail: [email protected] / [email protected]

SOURCE Rentrak Corporation