Rentrak Signs Cinelatino – The Leading Spanish Language Movie Channel

— As Hispanic Viewers Consume More Content Via Interactive Outlets, Networks are Turning to Rentrak to Understand the Video-On-Demand Market —

Rentrak Corporation (Nasdaq: RENT), a multi-screen media measurement and research company serving the advertising and entertainment industry, today announced a multi-year deal with Cinelatino, the leading Spanish-language premium film channel in the United States that offers the most current blockbusters and critically-acclaimed titles from Mexico, Latin America, Spain and the United States. To ensure it continues to offer the best programming based on viewer preferences, Cinelatino selected Rentrak’s OnDemand Essentials service in order to have access to detailed video-on-demand (VOD) insights.

“The Hispanic population is the largest and fastest growing demographic group in the U.S. and OnDemand Essentials will provide Cinelatino with key information needed to meet the growing demand for quality Spanish language content on the on-demand platform,” said Carol Hinnant, Senior Vice President of Business Development, Advanced Media and Information division at Rentrak. “With almost 20 different VOD channels targeted at the Hispanic market, Rentrak’s OnDemand Essentials service provides the necessary knowledge and trends to help programmers targeting the Hispanic demographic get a competitive edge by understanding what resonates with consumers.”

“The video-on-demand platform offers significant insight into our consumers’ viewing preferences,” said Jim McNamara, Chairman, Cinelatino. “The information provided by OnDemand Essentials is the knowledge we need to ensure we continue to deliver programming that meets our target consumers’ desires and maintain our position as the leading destination for ‘event’ movies and series in Spanish.”

Rentrak’s OnDemand Essentials processes daily, census-level on-demand data representing 70 million set-top boxes from 33 MSOs and 100% of the top-25 operators offering video-on-demand with their extensive on-demand data being used by more than 125 content provider subscription clients.

About Rentrak Corporation (NASDAQ: RENT)

Rentrak Corporation is an industry-advancing media measurement and research company, serving the most recognizable names in the entertainment industry. Reaching across numerous platforms including box office, home entertainment, on-demand and linear television, broadband and mobile, Rentrak provides exclusive and actionable insight for our clients and partners. From the introduction of our revolutionary Pay-Per-Transaction® distribution and revenue-sharing system, which equipped Rentrak with the intelligence and ability to deal with large, complex data streams, to the company’s exclusive Essentials(TM) suite of services, Rentrak has redefined digital audience measurement. Rentrak is headquartered in Portland, Oregon, with additional offices in Los Angeles, New York City and Miami/Ft Lauderdale. For more information on any of Rentrak’s services, please visit www.rentrak.com.

About Cinelatino

Cinelatino is the leading Spanish-language premium film channel in the United States, with more than 3.6 million subscribers on major cable, satellite and telephony providers throughout North America. Cinelatino offers the most current Spanish-language blockbusters and critically-acclaimed titles from Mexico, Latin America, Spain and the U.S. Cinelatino is jointly-owned by Grupo MVS, InterMedia Partners and Panamax Films.

SOURCE Rentrak Corporation