Inception (2010) — Read Along

Stephen Blackford

·

Follow

6 min read

·

May 22, 2024

--

“Wait. Who’s subconscious are we going through exactly?”

Originally penned and published over a decade ago and part of the much larger opus blog article on the entire cinematic career of master director Christopher Nolan linked at the bottom of the following paragraph, “Inception” ranks 5th on my all time favourite films from Christopher Nolan and whilst this would appear at first glance to be damning this magnificent cinematic achievement with the faintest of praise, I ADORE the films created by the time twisting Londoner and simply love four other of his creations more.

Sense it seems returns inside The Matrix with “Inception” currently 14th on the www.imdb.com 250 top ranked films of all time, the other 11 films under his direction can be found lovingly adored in my original opus blog article(s) linked immediately below together with last year’s “Oppenheimer”, and I present my original review together with my Youtube and Rumble channel reading(s) of this review should you wish to join me in my faintly ridiculous concept of “Read Along” whereby you can, well, read along with me as you read my review whilst watching/listening to me reading it.

Ridiculous? Maybe! But we live in a ridiculous world and we should all be thankful that Christopher Nolan brightens our collective Matrix with his cinematic greatness.

“Inception” (2010)

The Best of Christopher Nolan — Vol 5.

medium.com

Christopher Nolan and his entire cinematic catalogue.

Following, Memento, Insomnia, The Dark Knight Batman trilogy, The Prestige, Inception, Interstellar, Dunkirk and Tenet

medium.com

“Oppenheimer” (2023)

“They won’t fear it until they understand it”.

medium.com

"Inception" (2010) Directed by Christopher Nolan

"Wait. Who's subconscious are we going through exactly?". Beginning at the end of the film, or does it? Is it all a…

rumble.com

Beginning at the end of the film, or does it? Is it all a dream? Is it limbo? Confused already? Well you should be! Yet another Christopher Nolan film that is difficult to describe without giving away plot spoilers and yet another Nolan film with a twisted time line. Written and directed by Christopher Nolan, this is also another of his films based on an original idea (dream stealing) he wrote as a treatment and sketchy outline many years before it was actually made, and I for one am eternally grateful it was. It’s an astonishing film which when seen on the big screen is a treat and so immersive but remains a true joy when re-watching. A film of many themes but the obvious opening one is that of dream stealing and being in a state of lucid dreaming, of being aware you are dreaming yet your dreams take bizarre and surreal circumstances. Which raises the question: what is Inception? It’s the planting of an idea into someone to think/believe they actually thought of the idea themselves.

The cast is both a stellar collection of the finest character actors around, and also a truly international one. Leonardo DiCaprio, Ken Watanabe, Cillian Murphy, Marion Cotillard, Tom Hardy, Ellen (now Elliott) Page and Joseph Gordon-Levitt all take centre stage, ably supported by cameo roles from Michael Caine, Tom Berenger and Pete Postlethwaite. Long time Director of Photography Wally Pfister is again on board, but Hans Zimmer providing the musical score this time, a majestic one and highly recommended at that, and to great effect. The immersive musical score is again an electronic “hum”, dense and melancholic and a real treat. Johnny Marr, formerly of The Smith’s, guests on guitar and the beautiful “Non, Je Ne Regrette Rien” from Edith Piaf is used continually throughout. This is another Christopher Nolan film to garner several Oscar nominations (8) and winning in 4 categories, Best Visual Effects, Best Sound Editing, Best Sound Mixing and Best Cinematography, thereby securing Wally Pfister’s first Oscar after being nominated on all three previous Nolan films.

You truly have to suspend your disbelief and maybe even your actual beliefs from the very outset. “Cobb” (Leonardo DiCaprio) is an extractor of dreams who is desperate to return home to be with his family, but takes solace in re-tracing his dreams to keep alive his dead wife “Mal” (brilliantly played by Marion Cotillard). The return home, and the ending of his “dreams” that are tearing him apart is provided by “Saito” (an excellent Ken Watanabe), provided he can perfect an Inception into the life of his business rival “Robert” (Cillian Murphy).

Back to the premise: Cobb has to assemble a team for his “final job” and via his Father in-Law and Mentor “Miles” (Michael Caine) he seeks an architect. To enable the dream to take root in the mind of the subject, an architect “Ariadne” (an excellent Ellen (Elliott) Page) must build a unique, maze like dream world for everyone experiencing that person’s dream. Stay with me here! Three further team members join, “Yusuf” (Dileep Rao), “Eames” (Tom Hardy) and “Arthur” (Joseph Gordon-Levitt). The chemistry and interplay between Eames and Arthur lend the film a much needed breather and genuine light relief.

However, it’s quickly clear that this “final job” will require more than simply Inception. It will require three levels within the dream: a dream, within a dream, within a dream. As the dream(s) unravel, it’s clear that due to the deep nature of the dream(s), death in a dream will not result in waking in “real life” as is normal in Inception. This is far too deep in the subconscious mind for that, and death will result in Limbo, a raw, infinite subconscious of the shared mind where any mind can make drastic changes and lasts for 50+ years.

And this is just the beginning!

We are treated to numerous juxtapositions of slow motion action shots and explosions against a backdrop of characters seemingly oblivious to this. We are also constantly jolted from such scenes to scenes of seeming tranquility, as the characters are attached to the dream machine and laying motionless and asleep. Is this present day? But what is present day? What is a dream, and whose dream are we currently in? The CGI is superb throughout, as buildings and constructs are moved 180 degrees, demolished and conversely, created by The Architect from nothing. These scenes are given a real surreal feel to them and are a real joy.

You really have to see this film. And if you’ve already seen it, kick off your shoes and watch again! A redemption film, it shares common themes on lucid dreaming with the underrated Cameron Crowe film of 2001, “Vanilla Sky”. “Inception” is far, far superior in every way, but lucid dreaming, and the feeling of “am I dreaming?” are common to both. The excellent “bullet time” sequences take The Wachowski’s “The Matrix” trilogy use to much higher levels and the slow motion shots throughout are a surreal delight. Themes of memory and challenging the world around you are evident but ultimately it challenges the audience to pay attention, suspend their disbelief, challenge your every day beliefs in the world must be as it is because it’s here, it’s now, and go along for the ride.

And what a ride it is!

Thanks for reading. I hope this message in a bottle in The Matrix finds you well, prospering, and the right way up in an upside down world.