Far from being a "two-bit" entity, once again Plaid will be in a position to make sensible gains for Wales - notably to get us a fairer share of Westminster funding.

"Plaid is just a two-bit player in this national context and I think people will understand that."

All we are interested in,apparently,are two-bit telly actors,``love rat'' theatre stars and troubled sportsmen.

As far as I can tell, the greatest downside of the computing and communications revolution is that every two-bit, weasely politician and mediocre educational bureaucrat in the world has read Peter Drucker.

("The 'Gate-less Community," July/August) Those good ol' boys--awash in oil, money, graft, and slick bookkeeping--are turning out to be more crooked than the crookedest two-bit Texan card shark.

The answer is deceptively obvious: In the war on terror, the American people don't need the help of two-bit felons.

It looks cheap and boxy, like an in-house magazine from some two-bit business concern.

Even as the Reagan-Bush administration promised to minimize the scope and size of the federal government, it waged a gratuitous, invasive, multi-front campaign against pleasure-seeking: It reinvigorated the War on Drugs, pushing through grotesquely draconian laws that have helped create a national drug-gulag system the envy of every two-bit dictatorship.

In 16 years, ad agency Saatchi and Saatchi grew from a two-bit company to a billion pound global business.

With a bravado that would shame a two-bit con artist, ministers say they have acted to stop the Chinese from dumping cheap imports.

Had he been a two-bit crook, he would almost certainly be behind bars.

STRICTLY Come Dancing judge Craig Revel Horwood says that former EastEnders star Patsy Palmer is just a " scrubber in a Puffa jacket" and that he shouldn't have to defend his decisions to a "two-bit actress from a second-rate soap".

Ray Mallon was criticised for dragging politics into the gutter after calling opponents of a regional assembly "two-bit Conservatives" when he hit the streets of Durham yesterday.

It's an engaging read, though some of the two-bit moralising is a bit intrusive.