Article content

For at least one day, they are all Belleville Bulls.

Fifty-four players, making up the largest contingent of hopefuls to ever attend a Bulls training camp since GM-coach George Burnett took over the helm in 2004, will report to Day 1 of training camp Wednesday at Yardmen Arena where weigh-ins, physicals and fitness testing will precede on-ice activities starting Thursday.

With 12 players ineligible to return from last year's Bulls team that pushed the Barrie Colts to seven games before losing the OHL's Eastern Conference final — except three potential overage candidates — there's plenty of opportunity to earn jobs in a rebuilding season in Belleville.

Thirty-one forwards, 18 defencemen and five goaltenders will muscle their way into Yardmen Arena Wednesday. Of that group, the roster includes 14 veterans — eight forwards, five blueliners and netminder Charlie Graham, who inherits the No. 1 job from OHL all-star Malcolm Subban, who, barring an extremely unlikely scenario, will turn pro this fall in the Boston Bruins organization.

Of the returning forwards, team captain Brendan Gaunce is a 50-50 possibility to remain in Belleville as he is expected to be provided with every possible opportunity to win an NHL freshman spot in Vancouver where the Canucks are embarking on something of a youth movement.

Excluding Gaunce, the returning forwards from Belleville's 2012-13 OHL campaign include Aaron Berisha, Michael Cramarossa, Chad Heffernan, Garrett Hooey, Niki Petti and two overage candidates — Alan Quine (New York Islanders) and Scott Simmonds, who has a free-agent tryout with the Pittsburgh Penguins.

On defence, returnees include Brady Austin (Buffalo Sabres), Jordan Subban (Vancouver), Adam Bignell, Daniel DeSousa and Jake Worrad. Austin and Worrad can only return in OA capacities.

Graham, in 25 games last season, was outstanding for the Bulls and looks more than ready to assume a heavy workload as the new No. 1 puckstopper. He'll get competition in camp from previous Bulls draft pick, Braydon Banitsiotis, also a 1995 birthdate, plus three newcomers — Vincenzo D'Elia (Markham Waxers midget), Connor Hicks (Ottawa Senators minor midget) and Belleville product Brock Tufts from the Quinte Red Devils.

While Gaunce's status remains up in the air, veteran import forward and Edmonton Oilers draft pick Daniil Zharkov has already flown the coop. The rangy Russian and 25-goal scorer last season opted to return to his homeland this fall to turn pro early in the KHL.

Zharkov remains on Belleville's protected list, just in case, but hopes of his return are dim.

“If Brandon and Zharkov are unavailable to us, it's a pretty big loss,” said Burnett. “But, I'm really pleased where we're at with our young guys coming in.”

Recent trade aquisitions Luke Cairns from the Erie Otters and Jake Marchment, who spent last season in Wellington with the Jr. A Dukes but was property of the North Bay Battalion, are expected to fill immediate voids up front.

“Marchment's game is certainly suited to our league,” said Burnett, referring to the robust style preferred by the six-foot-three, 210-pounder. “He enjoys playing the rugged power game. Cairns' game is speed, with a high skill level.”

Cairns, 19, produced an OHL career-high 41 points for Erie last season, including a dozen goals.

Marchment, a 1995 birthdate, is the nephew of former Bulls defenceman, Bryan Marchment, arguably the best pure bodychecker in franchise history, who went on to a lengthy career in the NHL.

Burnett says this year's camp might be Belleville's most competitive since 2004 and some raw recruits will get long looks.

“There are a number of things to be determined, like our OA situation and the Brendan factor — that will be huge — so we'll have to be a little bit patient,” said Burnett. “But, I feel better now than I did a month ago when Marchment and Cairns weren't in the mix.

“Five or six guys will (eventually) be away at NHL camps, for sure, so guys will get a chance to play a lot in exhibition games.”

Among the notable newcomers:

• Justin Lemcke, D. Belleville's first-rounder from the 2013 OHL draft (Whitby minor midget) is already 6-2 and 192 pounds.

• David Tomasek, F. Belleville's 2013 CHL import draft pick from the Czech Republic spent three years in Michigan to prepare for the jump to the OHL. If he plays as well as he speaks English, Bulls have a winner.

• Griffin McCarty, F. A walk-on from Detroit where his father, former Bulls captain, Darren McCarty, was a Stanley Cup winner with the Red Wings.

SCRIMMAGES START THURSDAY

Bulls will hold round-robin scrimmages Thursday and Friday at Yardmen Arena at 9 a.m., 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. with Team White vs. Team Black night games at 6:30 p.m. All morning scrimmages and Black-and-White night games are free for public viewing.

The opening contest of an ambitious five-game pre-season exhibition schedule is Sunday at 2 p.m. at Yardmen Arena against the East Division rival Peterborough Petes.

BULLETS

• Local educator, ROB BUNTON, has been appointed by the Bulls to oversee the planning and delivery of their various hockey schools, skills programs and development leagues. The Belleville native and UWO grad teaches and coaches at St. Theresa. His daughter, HANNA BUNTON, assisted on the gold medal game-winning goal for Team Canada at the most recent U18 women's world championships.