222026470

Use this image under Non-Commercial licence

You can embed or download low-resolution images free of charge for private and non-commercial use under the IWM Non-Commercial Licence.

By downloading or embedding any image, you agree to the terms and conditions of the IWM Non Commercial Licence, including your use of the attribution statement specified by IWM. For this item, that is:

Image: IWM (CH 11455)

Accepted Non-commercial Use

Permitted use for these purposes:

Personal use for non-commercial research and private study and other uses under the UK’s exceptions to copyright and those exceptions to copyright in place where the user is located.

Use on websites that are primarily information-led, research-oriented and not behind a paywall.

Use on personal social media accounts, provided the individuals are not promoting themselves commercially.

Non-Commercial educational use for the purpose of teaching and instruction, including internal training.

Downloading audio-visual for non-commercial offline listening or viewing.

Free exhibitions held in venues, which do not charge an entry fee.

If you would like to use IWM collections materials in a way that is not covered above, require a commercial licence, high-resolution copies, or have manipulation requests, please contact the Image and Film Licensing Team. Digital files of films and sound recordings are available at cost depending on intended use.

Embed

HTML: BBCode:

Description

Object description

Original wartime caption: First official photographs of the Avro York, civil transport version of the famous Avro Lancaster bomber. Externally, the main points of difference between the York and the Lancaster are the shape of the fuselage [which has been specially designed for passenger or freight carrying] and the introduction of a triple-fin tail unit in the former. In each aircraft the design of the individual fin and rudder is similar, and the wings and engine nacelles of the York were designed originally for the Lancaster. The York's wing span is 102 ft. and its overall length 78 ft. It is powered by four Rolls-Royce liquid-cooled Merlin engines. When employed over comparatively short distances it is capable of carrying more than 50 passengers, but it may be used for either short or long journeys, and can be adapted readily to take passengers and freight, or freight alone. Picture (issued 1943) shows - The Avro York.

Physical description

Photographic negative

Our collections information

We have over a million object records online, and we are adding to this all the time. Our records are never finished. Sometimes we discover new information that changes what we know about an object, such as who made it or used it. Sometimes we change how an object is interpreted. We sometimes make mistakes in our spelling, transcription or categorisation, or miss information out of our records.

Read more about our collections and the information we hold. Developing our collections information

If you have concerns about the language in this record, or you have information to improve it, please share your feedback.

Our collections information

Please use this form to give us feedback on an object. The form will be sent to our Collections Management Team who will use it to improve our object records. We receive a lot of comments and can't respond to each one, but we do read them all and will respond where we can.

Read more about our collections and the information we hold.

Object

Your feedback

Name

Email address

(we will only ever use it to respond to you about your feedback)

Related content

IWM A 13308

Second World War

How Britain Celebrated Christmas During The Second World War

Six years of war brought many changes to familiar festive rituals. Christmas celebrations during the Second World War often had to be scaled down or adjusted as restrictions and shortages took their toll.

Share this