Get ready to watch “Sex Appeal.”

The new American High movie, shot in Syracuse last year, premieres on Hulu this Friday, Jan. 14. Here’s everything you need to know about the film, including how to watch it.

What is “Sex Appeal” about?

The plot centers on Avery Hansen-White (“Project MC2″ actress Mika Abdalla), a high school student who recruits her best friend Larson (”A.N.T. Farm” actor Jake Short) to practice sex with as a scientific experiment before taking her relationship with her boyfriend to the next level at an upcoming STEM conference (“nerd prom”). She creates an app to study the data (hence the film’s title, “Sex APPeal”) but soon realizes there’s more to sex and love than just the physical acts: Relationships require both head and heart.

“The only science she doesn’t get is chemistry,” the film’s tagline says.

Who’s in the movie?

Besides Abdalla and Short, the cast includes Margaret Cho (“30 Rock”), Fortune Feimster (“The Mindy Project”), Rebecca Henderson (“Westworld”), Artemis Pebdani (“It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia”), Skai Jackson (”Jessie”), and Paris Jackson, the daughter of pop music legend Michael Jackson. Tate Hanyock, who wrote the script, also appears as a teacher.

“Sex Appeal” is the feature-length directorial debut for Talia Osteen (HBO’s “Blindsided”) and executive produced by Hanyock.

The film is produced by Jeremy Garelick, Will Phelps and Ryan Bennett for American High, Mark Fasano and Tobias Weymar for Nickel City, Kendrick Tan for Lit Entertainment, and Michael Glassman for LD Entertainment.

‘Sex Appeal’ review: New movie shot in Syracuse is funny, refreshing lesson in sex and love

Margaret Cho proud of ‘Sex Appeal,’ compares it to John Hughes movie (interview)

How do I watch “Sex Appeal?”

“Sex Appeal” is streaming exclusively on Hulu at no extra charge to subscribers. Hulu subscriptions are available at hulu.com starting at $6.99 a month with ads or $12.99 without ads; Hulu also offers a bundle deal with Hulu (ad-supported), Disney+ and ESPN+ together for $13.99 a month, and Hulu + Live TV includes more than 75 live TV channels for $69.99 a month.

The release date for “Sex Appeal” is Friday, Jan. 14, 2022.

What is “Sex Appeal” rated?

The movie is being released directly onto the streaming service Hulu and not in theaters, so it doesn’t have a traditional MPAA rating like PG-13 or R, but it is rated TV-MA for mature audiences. Viewer discretion is advised as much of the film involves frank discussions about sex and sexual acts; sex is never explicitly shown but includes very suggestive sequences such as a construction worker going down a manhole, a rocket exploding, and synchronized swimming.

If you’re a parent, the trailer gives you a pretty good idea of whether your kids are old enough to watch:

Where was “Sex Appeal” filmed?

Scenes were shot in early 2020 at Syracuse Studios (the former A.V. Zogg Middle School in Liverpool), Onondaga Lake Park, and the village of Liverpool, N.Y.

Other movie recommendations?

Fans of “Sex Appeal” may also enjoy films like “Weird Science,” “American Pie,” “Sexify,” “Sex Education” and “The To-Do List.”