Jamaican reggae singer Bob Marley died at a Miami hospital yesterday after a seven-month battle against cancer.

Mr Marley, whose group, Bob Marley and the Wailers, was probably the world's best-known reggae band, had been flown to Miami on Thursday from West Germany.

The 36-year-old singer was admitted to the Cedars of Lebanon hospital, where he had been treated in the past. Mr Marley gave his last concert at New York's Madison Square Gardens.

The eloquent ambassador of reggae. The death of Bob Marley, aged 36, from cancer yesterday robs Jamaican music of its first ambassador, and popular music in general of one of its most eloquent powerful and conscientious voices.

Over the past 10 years Marley has been almost single-handedly responsible for introducing reggae music to an international audience, and with it, the first popular knowledge of the Rastafarian faith which he followed and always espoused in his music. Marley became a figure of incalculable influence and inspiration to the young.

Marley was born in Jamaica in 1945, son of a British army captain and a Jamaican woman. He began his singing career in the early 1960s with the vocal group The Wailers, playing a form of reggae strongly influenced by his personal exposure to the love of American rhythm and blues artists such as The Impressions.

The beautifully melodic quality which surfaced in Marley's work, allied to the irresistible reggae rhythm and the potent conviction of his lyrical messages, was to make Marley the first reggae artist to achieve recognition in the popular market, beginning with the album Catch a Fire in 1972.

When other rock performers recorded his work - such as Eric Clapton, who recorded Marley's song "I Shot the Sheriff" - the singer's reputation was enhanced still further.

Marley achieved the rare feat of being a popular figure, feted by the chic and the powerful without compromising his credibility as a spokesman for millions of young blacks.

He was obliged to leave Jamaica in 1979 after he was shot in the chest following appearances at public rallies in support of the then Prime Minister, Michael Manley.

Eighteen months after the attempt on his life, Marley returned to Jamaica and gave a concert at Kingston. In a new spirit of reconciliation, Manley and the Opposition leader Edward Seaga appeared on stage with him.