Who knew what and when about sexual misconduct allegations against Stan Rosenberg's husband Bryon Hefner?

By Jacqueline Tempera

MassLive.com

June 26, 2018

https://www.masslive.com/expo/news/erry-2018/06/9f0de25e7b530/bryon_hefner_and_stan_rosenber.html

[with video]

Allegations against Bryon Hefner, former Senate President Stan Rosenberg's husband, continue to mount.

And now, Rosenberg faces a civil suit that alleges the longtime Amherst senator knew what his husband was doing and turned a blind eye.

Below is a timeline of events, as we know them, from a civil suit filed by a legislative aide who says Hefner assaulted him, Hefner's criminal case, interviews, and media reports.

'Unfettered access' to Senate business

Starting in this period, the a Senate Ethics Committee review found, Hefner had "unfettered access" to Senate business and bragged about his supposed influence in state politics. The Ethics Committee found no evidence that Hefner influenced Rosenberg's actions in office.

Hefner allegedly takes naked photos of an elected official at a conference

Hefner befriends, allegedly assaults 'Person 3'

Rosenberg emphasizes that his partner has no involvement in Senate business

"She told me that there were social media posts that she was concerned about and were offensive and that needed to stop," Rosenberg told the newspaper. "I turned to Bryon and said, 'I understand there are some social media things you have put up that are offensive to people and inappropriate. Stop.'"

Rosenberg further emphasized that Hefner would not be involved of making any decisions.

"All personnel decisions, all the chairmanships, are going though the normal internal processes." he told the Globe in an article cited the ethics committee report. He told reporters that he and Hefner were in a "deeply committed" relationship.

The Firewall

Rosenberg becomes the Senate President

Hefner allegedly assaults 'John Doe,' former legislative aid who filed civil suit

Rosenberg sent 'sexualized text messages' according to suit

'Knock it off back there'

Rosenberg and Hefner get married

The Boston Globe publishes a report alleging sexual misconduct by Hefner

Rosenberg steps down

Hefner is indicted by a statewide grand jury

Hefner pleads not guilty to 10 charges

Rosenberg failed to protect the lawmaking body, report finds

Rosenberg and Hefner charged in civil lawsuit