Guest Speaker: Friday, October 12, 2018

Location: The National Club, 303 Bay Street

Topic: Leadership That Works, A conversation with John Tory

Host: Don Bell

Cost: Toronto Rotarians: A lunch ticket

Visiting Rotarians and Guests: $55 call 416-363-0604

Email: office@rotarytoronto.com

As the 65th Mayor of Toronto, John Tory has led the way in tackling traffic congestion and building transit.

Mayor Tory has taken action to reduce commute times while moving forward with Toronto’s first-ever network transit plan that will see subway lines extended through the northwest end of the city into Vaughan and east to Scarborough, a significant expansion of the LRT network, and much greater use of GO lines across the city as part of SmartTrack, the Mayor’s signature transit initiative.

Since being elected to office in 2014, he has been focused on ensuring Toronto remains a livable and affordable city, leading City Council in passing successive budgets that kept taxes at or below the rate of inflation while investing in priority services including housing, parks and student nutrition. He has worked to make the city government more modern and effective, to deliver better services at a more competitive price, and to be more open and accountable to the public.

Born and raised in Toronto, Mayor Tory has spent his career giving back to the city he loves working with organizations like the United Way, St. Michael’s Hospital and Civic Action. In office, he has been a constant champion for Toronto, securing billions of dollars from the provincial and federal governments for transit, housing and other vital infrastructure. He uses his experience leading organizations and businesses to promote Toronto on the world stage, attract jobs and investment, and secure the city’s future as a global capital.

Mayor Tory began his career practicing law in Toronto, and he was later elected as a managing partner of one of Canada’s biggest law firms. In the 1980s he served as Principal Secretary to Premier Bill Davis and as Associate Secretary of the Ontario Cabinet. He has served as Commissioner of the Canadian Football League and as CEO of Rogers, one of the country’s largest cable companies. His time in politics dates back to 2004 when he was chosen to lead the Progressive Conservative Party of Ontario, later serving as Leader of the Official Opposition at Queen’s Park.

Mayor Tory is a lifelong, and long-suffering, Toronto Maple Leafs fan – and is an avid supporter of all Toronto’s teams and attractions. Mayor Tory and his wife Barbara have been married for 39 years, have four children and five grandchildren.