John Tory & Andrew Clark, President & CEO of ALIGNED Insurance

Given his involvement and passion for politics Andrew Clark, President & CEO, of ALIGNED Insurance has had the pleasure of meeting John Tory a number of times over the past 10 years and wishes him well in the fast approaching Toronto Mayoral election.

For more information about John Tory visit www.johntory.ca or see below.

JOHN TORY IS A HUSBAND, FATHER, GRANDFATHER, BUSINESSMAN, LAWYER, VOLUNTEER AND COMMUNITY ACTIVIST. HE HAS SHOWN THAT HE HAS THE PASSION AND THE EXPERIENCE TO BUILD A MORE LIVEABLE, AFFORDABLE, AND FUNCTIONAL TORONTO.

John Tory knows how to successfully lead, manage and obtain results from large, complex organizations. This proven ability to bring people together is evident throughout his career, including as CEO of one of Canada’s largest publishing and broadcasting companies, and as Commissioner and Chairman of the Canadian Football League. His leadership has been widely credited with returning that national institution to stability.

John’s involvement in our community has come full-circle. Many know him most recently as the evening host of Live Drive with John Tory, but his first experience with City Hall all dates back to the early 1970′s when he was a member of the City Hall Press Gallery as a reporter, interviewer and newscaster for two local radio stations. He has also served in public office as a Member of Provincial Parliament, Leader of the Ontario PC Party, and Leader of the Official Opposition at Queen’s Park.

In 2012, John was appointed by the Ontario Liberal government to chair a special panel that outlined recommendations on revitalizing Ontario Place on Toronto’s waterfront. John is also a founding member and former Chair of the Greater Toronto CivicAction Alliance. Through CivicAction, John has brought together people from all corners of Toronto to champion solutions to the city’s most challenging issues. John was recently awarded the Order of Ontario for being a “consummate champion for the Greater Toronto Region.”

John’s passion for Toronto and his commitment to the values of tolerance and compassion are especially evident through his many years as a volunteer, fundraiser and community activist. He has been a volunteer director and has championed the causes of such organizations as the Canadian Paraplegic Association, Crimestoppers, St. Michael’s Hospital, Toronto Association for Community Living, the United Way, and the Women’s Legal Education & Action Fund (LEAF).