Thu, Jun 26, 2008 at 11:00pm

GRIZZ, WOLVES TRADE EIGHT!

The Memphis Grizzlies potentially acquired guards O.J. Mayo, Marko Jaric and Greg Buckner, as well as forward Antoine Walker, from the Minnesota Timberwolves for forward/guard Mike Miller, forwards Kevin Love and Brian Cardinal, as well as center

What does it give the Memphis Grizzlies

In the wake of this past seeason's Pau Gasol trade, Memphis wanted someone with veritable star power to build around and excite fans; while Kevin Love has a bright NBA future ahead of him, O.J. Mayo is definitely superior in that respect. The team doesn't necessarily need a point guard, with Kyle Lowry, Mike Conley and Javaris Crittenton all looking to start next season, so perhaps he'll get some time at SG, where some feel he's best suited. The rest of the package is more or less just an assortment of Minnesota's worst contracts, which obviously won't impact their short term fortunes but will give Memphis some needed room when they start coming off the books. It's still going to be a rough couple of years for the Grizzlies, but fans now have two budding superstars (Mayo and Rudy Gay) to keep them entertained.

What does it give the Minnesota Timberwolves

Drafting Mayo was the smart move, since he was the third-best player in the draft. Likewise, trading him for good value is a smart move, since Minnesota already has a fine backcourt with Randy Foye, Rashad McCants and now, shooting specialist Mike Miller. And putting someone with Kevin Love's basketball mind and natural skills alongside the more explosive and athletic Al Jefferson is a wonderful fit, with team GM and Hall of Famer Kevin McHale now having two youngsters to teach some of his low post moves to. Minnesota is forced to eat some contracts in the deal (Cardinal and Collins), but salary-wise they're better off in the long run, as those will expire sooner than the guys they sent Memphis. Miller will provide his usual scoring and allow McCants to keep coming off the bench, where he played well down the stretch last year. Going forward with an exciting lineup of Foye, Miller, Corey Brewer, Love and Jefferson, Minnesota should be hustling all over the court, scoring inside and outside. Suddenly the young T-Wlves look poised to eventually re-establish Minnesota as a force in the West.