Kanye West is supposedly releasing his collaborative project, "Vultures," with Ty Dolla $ign this month. With Kanye somehow becoming his most controversial self yet, and several setbacks, there is no guarantee that the album will see the light of day.

"Vultures," will be Kanye’s third fully collaborative project. In 2011, he released “Watch the Throne” with JAY-Z, and in 2018, “KIDS SEE GHOSTS,” with Kid Cudi. In 2012, under the GOOD MUSIC label, which he is the head of, released "Cruel Summer," a compilation.

This list includes songs in which Kanye and his collaborators are listed as “primary artists.” This will not include any songs he appears on as a feature and vice versa. This will include all of the songs that Kanye performs on from the albums listed above, plus non-album singles under the same criteria.

With that out of the way, let’s dive into Kanye’s 20+ years of collaboration, and rank them from worst to best.

43. "True Love" (with XXXTentacion) (2022)

Not only is this song disrespectful to the memory of Jahseh Onfroy, but it is also offensively bad.

Most of Kanye’s songs surrounding his divorce with Kim Kardashian aren’t the best, but this takes the cake as the worst collaborative single he’s ever released.

42. "I Love It" (with Lil Pump) (2018)

Every aspect of this song is terrible. The clean version performed on SNL emphasized how tacky it is.

If you can enjoy it in an ironic way, hats off to you.

41. "Hot S**t" (with Cardi B & Lil Durk) (2022)

There’s little to say about this song because it says little to nothing in the grand scheme of things.

40. "City of Gods" (with Fivio Foreign & Alicia Keys) (2022)

Kanye and Fivio Foreign struck gold on "Off The Grid,” which makes it hard to believe that adding Alicia Keys to the mix would result in something much more boring. The result is a strange drill version of “Empire State of Mind,” something that should have been left untouched.

It’s also weird seeing Kanye repping New York considering his ties with Chicago.

39. "Eazy" (with The Game) (2022)

The most notable thing about this track was the disturbing cover art.

The Game spits a solid verse, and the instrumental sampling "Eazy Duz It" creates a moody atmosphere. Kanye comes off as nonsensical and not in a polished way.

38. "Who Gon Stop Me" (with JAY-Z) (2011)

The first (and worst) track coming from "Watch the Throne."

It’s hard to believe that this EDM-infused track made the final cut on the album, as it sounds incredibly dated. In retrospect, it’s a bit head-scratching, but it could have been cool for the time.

37. "Cold" (with DJ Khaled) (2012)

This song falls under the nearly two-decade question: What does DJ Khaled even do? He yells briefly on the intro and is never seen again, he doesn’t have production credits on the track either.

Similar to the previous track on the list, it sounds dated, and it’s also forgettable.

36. "To the World" (with R. Kelly & Teyana Taylor) (2012)

This song could have had potential if it didn’t have R. Kelly featured. However, the instrumentation is grand and serves as a solid opener to Cruel Summer.

35. "Vultures" (with Ty Dolla $ign, Feat. Bump J & Lil Durk) (2023)

Vultures serves as the first single back from Kanye’s most offensive rant to date. While he addresses this, Kanye seems to blow it off in his typical fashion.

Ty Dolla $ign and the features save the song, and help give hope that the Vultures record might not be too bad after all.

34. "Primetime" (with JAY-Z) (2011)

The sample is decent, but it’s one of the more forgettable tracks on "Watch the Throne." I can see why it didn’t make the original cut for the album.

33. "Welcome to the Jungle" (with JAY-Z) (2011)

Another track that’s lower on the list because it sounds dated. While the bars are there, it is just a little hard getting passed the beat.

32. "Christmas in Harlem (with CyHi Da Prynce, Teyana Taylor) (2010)

A solid track overall, — just not my favorite from West’s Good Music Fridays.

31. "Illest M*********r Alive" (with JAY-Z) 2011)

This track sounds like it could have been on West’s "My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy" – which is a good thing.

30. "Fire" (with Kid Cudi) (2018)

The worst track from "KIDS SEE GHOSTS" is pretty charming. My favorite part is the outro featuring a somber guitar riff, it’s chilling.

29. "New Day" (with JAY-Z) (2011)

This song could have been a lot higher if the sample was mixed better, it’s just too overbearing.

28. "Lift Off" (with JAY-Z, Feat. Beyoncé) (2011)

Beyoncé sounds great – as usual. "Lift Off" is the most grandiose track on the entire album.

27. "Kids See Ghosts" (with Kid Cudi, Feat. Yasiin Bey) (2018)

The title track creates a spooky atmosphere with complex synth layers. Not my go-to track on the aux, but the production heightens the listening experience.

26. "The One" (with Big Sean, 2 Chainz & Marsha Ambrosius) (2012)

A slow and emotional track that opens up more than usual for Big Sean, and 2 Chainz.

25. "The Joy" (with JAY-Z, Feat. Curtis Mayfield) (2011)

The closer to the deluxe album, "The Joy" lets both rappers spit what’s on their minds for the last time.

24. "Feel the Love" (with Kid Cudi, Feat. Pusha T) (2018)

Kanye’s verse is total nonsense – but in a good way. His scatting combined with the drums makes a memorable introduction and shows how far he’s come when experimenting with his sound.

23. "H*A*M" (with JAY-Z) (2011)

The teaser to "Watch the Throne." It showed that Kanye and JAY-Z had nothing to prove, yet they were still going to control the rap game.

22. "Why I Love You" (with JAY-Z) (2011)

Sounds like something that could have been on "The Blueprint 3." A solid and less-dated pop crossover.

21. "That’s My B***h" (with JAY-Z) (2011)

This song sounds like a precursor to "Yeezus." It’s sporadic, and the features make this track an instant standout.

20. "Freeee (Ghost Town, Pt. 2)" (with Kid Cudi, Feat. Ty Dolla $ign) (2018)

While not as iconic as the first part, it proves that Cudi could have been more successful making rock music if he just had some backup.

19. "Gotta Have It" (with JAY-Z) (2011)

Neptunes production on a JAY-Z track makes for a pretty great combo. "Gotta Have It" displays both Kanye and JAY-Z dropping bars back to back and picking up where the last one left off.

18. "Clique" (with JAY-Z & Big Sean) (2012)

Insane beat. Insane delivery. What else could you want?

17. "Made in America" (with JAY-Z, Feat. Frank Ocean) (2011)

"Made in America" is pleasing to the ears. No other artist could have replaced Frank Ocean here.

16. "4th Dimension" (with Kid Cudi, Feat. Louis Prima) (2018)

"4th Dimension" is a Christmas song, and I stand by it.

Somehow even late into his career, Kanye managed to innovate with one of his best sample flips to date. Funny and clever bars from both Cudi and Ye help make this one of their highlights.

15. "FourFiveSeconds" (with Rihanna & Paul McCartney) (2015)

One of the rare times when Kanye has ventured into pop. It’s a charming acoustic cut with one of his catchiest choruses to date.

14. "Champions" (with Gucci Mane, Big Sean, 2 Chainz, Travis Scott, Yo Gotti, Quavo & Desiigner) (2016)

The Avengers of the 2016 rap game assemble. Desiigner is your Hawkeye.

13. "Don’t Like.1" (with Chief Keef, Pusha T, Big Sean, & Jadakiss) (2012)

A new take on Chief Keef’s classic single. While this version gets rid of the iconic intro, it somehow adds more depth with each of its features.

12. "No Church in the Wild" (with JAY-Z, Feat. Frank Ocean & The-Dream) (2011)

The opener to "Watch the Throne" sets expectations high for the rest of the album. It creates an atmospheric dystopian vibe that hasn’t been replicated since.

11. "Mercy" (with Big Sean, Pusha T, & 2 Chainz) (2012)

The best posse cut from "Cruel Summer." Everyone gets to shine, and the long runtime feels short because of how good this is.

10. "Hurricane" (with The Weeknd, Feat. Lil Baby) (2021)

Was the original "80 Degrees" better? Maybe.

Regardless, The Weeknd steals the show and creates one of the most memorable cuts off of "Donda."

9. "New God Flow" (with Pusha T) (2012)

Pusha T and Kanye do more than deliver. The best song on "Cruel Summer" shows why both of them are some of the best in the business.

8. "N****s in Paris" (with JAY-Z) (2011)

There’s not much I can say about this song that hasn’t already been said.

"N****s in Paris" is just another track that will forever cement the legacy of these two rappers.

7. "Reborn" (with Kid Cudi) (2018)

The centerpiece of "KIDS SEE GHOSTS" is long and atmospheric. Kid Cudi’s hums probably hit the hardest here.

6. "Murder to Excellence" (with JAY-Z) (2011)

The most serious we’ve probably ever seen Kanye and JAY-Z on a track together. While taking a break from gloating on the album, we’re shown why it matters to listen to this duo in the first place.

5. "Slow Jamz" (with Twista, Feat. Jamie Foxx) (2003)

A fun R&B track full of life and energy. "Slow Jamz" has all of the components that make a great Kanye song, and Twista spits one of the fastest and most memorable verses of his career.

4. "Forever" (with Drake, Lil Wayne & Eminem) (2009)

An instant hit. It’s still argued well over a decade later who had the best verse.

3. "Cudi Montage" (with Kid Cudi) (2018)

The closer to "KIDS SEE GHOSTS" is bittersweet. Sampling a Kurt Cobain guitar riff, Kanye and Cudi rap about mental health and societal issues.

While thematically sad, the song features a much-needed positive outlook.

2. "Life Of The Party" (with André 3000) (2021)

Arguably Kanye’s most emotional song to date. The "Donda" bonus track deals with grief, and lifelong familiar issues.

Any song that gets André 3000 out of retirement is almost guaranteed to be good. The DMX outro makes the track even more depressing.

1 "Otis" (with JAY-Z, Feat. Otis Redding) (2011)

"Otis" upon release was so groundbreaking that Funkmaster Flex restarted the track 25 times before completion live on Hot 97.

It is everything one could ever want from a Kanye West song. An incredible chopped soul sample, with egotistical bars, and endless replayability.