A growing number of lawsuits have been filed by people who were hurt when their Magic Bullet blender exploded.

What You Can Do & How We Can Help

The Schmidt Firm, PLLC is currently accepting Magic Bullet induced injury cases in all 50 states. If you or somebody you know has been injured or burned by a Magic Bullet blender that exploded, you should contact our lawyers immediately for a free case consultation. Please use the form below to contact our Product Liability Litigation Group or call toll free 24 hours a day at (866) 920-0753.

Magic Bullet Blender

The Magic Bullet® is a small handheld blender that is manufactured by Homeland Housewares. It is advertised as an extremely powerful blender in a small size that can blend food and make smoothies.

What is the Problem?

There are reports of Magic Bullet blenders exploding due to built-up pressure inside the container. This is a risk when a person blends hot or thick liquids inside the Magic Bullet. The dangerously high pressure causes the lid to explode off the base, sending boiling-hot food flying.

Magic Bullet Lawsuits

The first lawsuit involving a Magic Bullet blender injury was filed by a lawyer in California for a man who suffered serious cuts to his face.

The lawsuit claims that Homeland Housewares is aware that the Magic Bullet and Nutribullet blenders are defective and dangerous, but failed to fix the problem. According to the lawyer representing the injured man:

“Thankfully he is not permanently blinded, but the very hot, sticky sauce ended up in his eyeball, in addition to being all over his face and he had to undergo months of treatment to try to correct that problem.”

Safety Risks of the Magic Bullet

Explosions

Cuts

Lacerations

Burns

Eye injuries, vision loss, blindness

Scarring

Property damage

And more

How Can I Avoid Explosions?

Homeland Housewares asks consumers to read the instructions and follow them to be safe. For example, the Magic Bullet should not be used to blend hot liquids, for more than 1 minute, or left unattended.

Do I have a Magic Bullet Lawsuit?

The Schmidt Firm, PLLC is currently accepting Magic Bullet induced injury cases in all 50 states. If you or somebody you know has been injured or burned by a Magic Bullet blender that exploded, you should contact our lawyers immediately for a free case consultation. Please use the form below to contact our Product Liability Litigation Group or call toll free 24 hours a day at (866) 920-0753.