French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian Russia's Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev and European Council President Donald Tusk all turned up alongside Egypt's President Abdel Fattah el Sisi Tunisian President Béji Caïd Essebsi and Algerian Prime Minister Ahmed Ouyahia...

One of the few possible successors the current Prime Minister and Rassemblement national démocratique (RND) leader Ahmed Ouyahia is a divisive figure (AC Vol 59 No 1 Cold war and glacial change)...

After a number of officers were considered Prime Minister Ahmed Ouyahia recommended Lhbiri at a meeting that included the fearsome Security Services Coordinator Major General Athmane 'Bachir' Tartag because he was 'helpful controllable and attentive to decisions dictated from above and above all because the civil protection chief… would never allow himself any political ambitions...

Maïga's Algerian counterpart Ahmed Ouyahia publicly dashed any lingering separatist hopes of a sympathetic hearing from his government declaring Algeria's 'irreversible commitment to preserving the independence territorial integrity and unity of Mali'...

Potential successors to Bouteflika currently led by Prime Minister Ahmed Ouyahia may have to wait...

To little surprise Tebboune was replaced by Ahmed Ouyahia who has headed Bouteflika's private office in El Mouradia Palace since 2014...

The ruling party saw off a spirited challenge from the other main party linked to le pouvoir (the powers-that-be) Ahmed Ouyahia's Rassemblement national démocratique (RND)...

The top team around the President – led by his brother Saïd Bouteflika; the Chief of Staff and Deputy Defence Minister Lieutenant General Ahmed Gaïd Salah; Prime Minister Abdelmalek Sellal; and the former Premier-turned-directeur de cabinet of the Presidential Office Ahmed Ouyahia – provide cover for Boutef who is usually absent from day-to-day business (AC Vol 57 No 13 Political plots in a slow month)...

Likely successors remain machine politicians such as Prime Minister Abdelmalek Sellal or former Prime Minister Ahmed Ouyahia who would be unlikely to radically change things even though economic modernisation if not political reform is central to their discourse...

A negotiated transfer of power is the most likely outcome favouring a safe regime candidate such as Sellal or a former Premier the Presidential Office chief Ahmed Ouyahia...