Hurricane season begins June 1 and ends November 30. Martin County would like to remind residents about the importance of being prepared should a hurricane threaten our area. Review our hurricane preparedness page for information and resources.

The Martin MPO is working to reduce congestion and improve efficiency for motorists, cyclists and pedestrians along the US 1 corridor, from the south side of the Roosevelt Bridge to the Martin/St Lucie County line. Martin and St Lucie residents have until the end of September to complete this quick survey.

From millions of years ago until today, fire has been sharing habitats and wildlife communities in Florida. Join us at Halpatiokee Park on Tuesday, August 20, at 8:30 a.m., to hear from a prescribed fire expert and learn about the essential role of fire in Florida! Have all of your questions answered and see how previous burns have influenced this park. Registration is required for this free program.

The CRA's Architectural Design Standards are being refreshed to be more flexible and practical, much like a fresh coat of paint revitalizes a home. We've been working with the community to ensure these updates reflect your needs. Review the proposed changes, attend our public meetings, or share your thoughts. Together, we can preserve our community’s unique character while embracing positive change!

Martin County is in the process of updating the Local Mitigation Strategy Plan. Natural and human-caused hazards present risks to all Florida communities. We want to hear from you to better understand and define the range of hazards and risks present in our local community.

The Martin County Art in Public Places (AIPP) program invites you to unleash your creative vision through the Martin Murals Program! Murals do more than adorn our public spaces—they ignite tourism, nurture civic pride and drive economic growth. Successful applicants can receive up to $7,500 for their projects! Let's paint a brighter future for Martin County together!

Did you know that Martin County has year-round landscape irrigation conservation measures in place? These measures limit landscaping and lawn irrigation in unincorporated Martin County to two days a week and include restrictions on times watering is allowed. Help protect our water resources and ecosystems for future generations!