Movie finder Release calendar New releases Coming soon Reviews User reviews Search

Directed by Kenneth Branagh

Love's Labour's Lost 2000

PG

93 MIN

Overview Releases Reviews Cast crew Movie Codes Products News Forum

Romance

Comedy

Musical

StudioMiramax Films

Miramax

Release date Jun 11, 2000

Apr 02, 2000

Country UK LanguageEnglish Runtime93 minRatedPGTechnical details 2.39:1

Movie plot tags

In 1939, the King of Navarre and his three best friends swear an oath to give up women for three years whilst devoting themselves to the study of philosophy. One of the terms of their pledge specifically prohibits women from their presence, but the arrival of the Princess of France and her three beautiful attendants on a diplomatic visit throws the plan into disarray. Is this a feasible feat for a man of the court? And what of the King? The men begin to pursue their desires unbeknownst to each other, acting in secret and concealing their passions. The mood is broken by the news of the death ...(more)

In 1939, the King of Navarre and his three best friends swear an oath to give up women for three years whilst devoting themselves to the study of philosophy. One of the terms of their pledge specifically prohibits women from their presence, but the arrival of the Princess of France and her three beautiful attendants on a diplomatic visit throws the plan into disarray. Is this a feasible feat for a man of the court? And what of the King? The men begin to pursue their desires unbeknownst to each other, acting in secret and concealing their passions. The mood is broken by the news of the death of the Princess's father and the girls return to France. In the meantime, France has fallen to the Nazis and the men must leave to fight for their countries. Before they leave, the heartbroken men dedicate their love and promise to remain faithful. The war will test the couples' devotion and therefore decide the fate of their futures together. (less)

Director: Kenneth Branagh

Writers: Kenneth Branagh, William Shakespeare

Starring: Alessandro Nivola, Alicia Silverstone, Natascha McElhone, Kenneth Branagh, Carmen Ejogo, Adrian Lester

Producers: Kenneth Branagh, David Barron, Andrea Calderwood, Guy East, Alexis Lloyd, Rick Schwartz

» See full cast & crew

1

fans

6

Blu-ray

collections

47

DVD

collections

7

Digital

collections

5

iTunes

collections

2

Prime

collections

Similar titles you might also like

What is this?

Use the thumbs up and thumbs down icons to agree or disagree that the title is similar to Love's Labour's Lost. You can also suggest completely new similar titles to Love's Labour's Lost in the search box below.

Show more titles »« Show less titles

Similar titles suggested by members