めが ウ 悪

Mega Bū Aku Anime name Mega Buu Manga name Mega Buu Alternate names Mega Buu

Majin Buu

Mega Majin Buu

Banana freak

Buu-Boo

Pinhead

Bananahead

Loser Buu

Mega Super Buu

Bad Buu

Master Buu Debut Manga: "Ambush!"

"A Turn of the Tables"

Anime: "Majin Buu Transforms" (Mentioned English dub only and flashbacks)

Movie: Dragon Ball Z: The Origins of Majin Buu 1999

Dragon Ball Z: Fusion Reborn (Cameo) Appears in Race Majin Gender Male Date of birth Unknown Date of death November 29, Age 257

Age 260

Age 274

Age 294 Height Over 8' (considerably taller than Piccolo, who is 7'5" tall) Address Spencer World (Mega Buu's Palace) Occupation Archnenmsis of Spencer Family and Johnson family

Emperor Allegiance Babidi's Forces Family

Majin Buu (Counterpart/Fusee)

Evil Buu (Counterpart/Fusee)

Super Buu (Reincarnation counterpart/descendant)

Babidi (Boss)

Dabura (Superior)

Pui Pui (Superior)

Yakon (Pet friend)

Mega Buu (めが ウ 悪, Mega Bū Aku) is Majin Buu's third most powerful form (after Super Buu and Kid Buu by absorbing Southern Supreme Kai, Grand Supreme Kai, Gotenks, Gohan and Piccolo) as pure evil movie villain and past incarnation Majin Buu counterpart/ancestor of Super Buu and Kid Buu appears as the movie main antagonist in the manga and anime Dragon Ball series. He is the main antagonist for the Fusion Saga and Kid Buu Saga part of the Majin Buu Arc.

He attains this form when Super Buu absorbs Super Saiyan 3 Gotenks and Piccolo. In this form, Buu's sapience is heightened and he adopts a more 'fitting' look. His bizarre intelligence is also stabilized and multiplied by Piccolo and his power greatly coupled by Gotenks. In this form, he was able to fully dominate Mystic Gohan when he was unable to phase him in his former form and take control over Kayla like a puppet to control her body with his mind control, finger snaps and voice. This form looses its power when Gotenks defuses, resulting in a much weaker and wearing Piccolo's cape, but still smart version before absorbing Gohan.

He's also having a strong lust love interest with beautiful female characters of the series: Mary, Danielle and Kayla for her angelic beauty to have for his bride on his own like her ancestors Denise and Kaylah in the manga and anime series as he's did first appears in the anime episode and 1999 TV special movie, Dragon Ball Z: The Origins of Majin Buu.

Appearance[]

The only difference in appearance Mega Buu has reformed from his reincarnation counterparts and different descendants: super form Super Buu and original form Kid Buu is two things both in the manga and anime FUNimation dub, retaining Good Buu's skin color, but having a closer facial structure to that of Kid Buu, Evil Buu and Super Buu's appearances. It is replaced by two black arm bands with yellow linings and white baggy pants ending in black boots with similar yellow pattern ending in grayish brown shoes. He retains the majin belt of his previous form and a bit taller height than Cell. One is a yellow colored Metamoran vest, adopted from Gotenks. Also, his head tentacle is slightly longer than last time, which had simply reached to the base of his neck before, extends towards his back, similar to Gotenks' Super Saiyan 3 hair.

He gains a slight muscle mass, if any gain more power, clever, memories, knowledge and intelligent in his new looks. When he finished his transformation into this form, he asked both the shocked Gohan and frightened Kayla, "What do you think Gohan? A new suit to fit my new power." Mega Buu is gains a slightly slimmer build, taller and more defined, humanoid facial features. Mega Buu appears almost exactly the same as at the very end of his counterpart appearance (when Gohan, Piccolo, Goten, and Trunks were absorbed) in the manga. The only difference are his greater muscle tone, longer head tentacle, and softer facial expressions he has time from time.

His new attire also changes; while Mega Buu keeps the same pants and belt, with the Majin 'M' emblazoned on it that each form of Mega Buu possesses, he also wears the Metamoran vest; blue with dark blue long cape have tie over his neck and yellow padding same significant outfit like Super Buu absorbed SSJ 3 Gotenks and Piccolo in the anime episode, Majin Buu Transforms of the Fusion Saga and Majin Buu Saga arc in the manga and anime Dragon Ball Z series.

Personality[]

Mega Buu's true demeanor is a quite most super villainous, extremely evil, bloodthirsty, power-hungry, ignorant, arrogant, wickedness, bad, manipulative, cunning, selfish, greedy, cold-hearted, jealous, cruel, more cocky, aggressive, destructive, violent, abusive, clever, careless, intelligent, knowledgeable, memorable, ruthless, sarcastic, rude, confident and tyrannical powerful villain is similar more like King Piccolo, Frieza, Broly, Lord Slug, Bojack, Cooler, Cell, Super Buu and other villains of the manga and anime Dragon Ball series, movies and video games appearances. But, that he's very overconfident, impatience, faster, curious, uncaring, dangerous, psychopath, cunning and pure evil personality as the most evilest villain and far more powerful foe than his four Majin Buu counterparts and strong humanoid version of Super Buu, often showing little to no more remorse, no mercy, lack of emotions, doesn't care about others, but he does care for himself or no sense of compassion for his victims or killing Humans and animals.

Sometimes, like Super Buu, he's has very little patience and has extremely dangerous fits of anger, even holding the power to rip through dimensional walls if he gets angry enough. But he's getting a little more jealous rage of Jimmy Satan, who's Kayla's boyfriend and the father of Melissa in the anime episode, "Empty Plant". He's showing his flirtatious attitude to falling in love interest with and very attracted to the one of the incarnation Spencer descendants is Kayla, before her, her mother, Danielle, Mary, Kaylah, Denise and Empress Kaylah. Due to his love for Kayla (a sixteen years old teenage human girl born with Saiyan blood, Autism, immortality, Eternal youth and the reincarnation of Princess Kaylah Spencer), he wishes to take her away before the Earth and the entire universe is destroyed by overthrow Sixth Emperor Brandon Parker and his family to become the new ruler of the beautiful, dimensional realms Spencer World again more rather than destroy Spencer World, Other World, Earth and the entire universe from many years before without Wizard Bidibi, Wizard Babidi, Pui Pui, Yakon and Dabura. He has the most intelligent, knowledgeable, uncaring, clever, wise, cunning and manipulative personality of his powerful techniques and special abilities from the strongest fighters in the entire universe that he's truly doesn't care about his victims, comrades or master to control his life by threatening him back to the Sealed Ball with Wizard Bidibi's spell or Evil Containment Wave again and again twice like Good Buu did, while he's ruthless killed Babidi and Dabura in murderous violence nature with his evil crazy sinister laughter; after Pui Pui and Yakon failed to killing Jimmy Hawkins and their friends before the kiss his bride to stop the wedding ceremony between him and Kaylah, frustratingly killing Pui Pui with his large blast, took control her to attack Jimmy but freed her from his control, the world domination desire, the entire universe and ruined his plans.

Mega Buu is also shown to be a perfectionist, arrogant and cunning, much like Perfect Cell did, desiring to become even more complete than before.

Mega Buu is very hot-tempered and selfish, getting upset over trivial matters such as improper musical entertainment. This has led to angry outbursts, assaulting the other participants and keeping them prisoner, as well as attempting to control the whole tournament personally. Mega Buu shows annoyance towards the people who come seeking his wish granting abilities for selfish reasons, killing most of the people who desire to have their wish granted, with only a lucky few having their wish granted.

Like his reincarnation majin counterpart and descendant, Super Buu, he's had even agreed to spare Kayla's daughter, Gohan and others the doom he planned for mankind and not just killing her friends and family anymore on the Earth if Kayla accepted his marriage proposal by make her a choice: giving herself to him by truly manipulated and lied to her that he's coming back to kill them all if they're going to save her to stop the wedding or seeing him again with his true intentions in the anime episode. However, upon finding out that Kayla only loves Jimmy Satan and the reason she "accepted" his proposal was to save her daughter, free her friends of their pods from inside himself, family and stop his plans as per Babidi’s orders like his original form did, hurting her mother and hate both her father and grandfather, James, he shows a very jealous side with angry rage toward Jimmy and loses his calm demeanor into his stubborn and wicked smile, as a result he not only destroyed the red rose pattern scarf intended for Jimmy are similar to like Jimmy Hawkins and Kaylah Spencer did, Shawn Spencer and Denise Uzumkai, James and Mary and also Shaun and Danielle did, Emperor Matthew and Empress Kaylah along with their friends, knowing that Empress Kaylah was a beautiful young woman as the beautiful, first Jinchuriki of Shenron and Porunga, the glowing Earth and Namekian Dragon Balls Birthmarks and also become the legendary ultimate fighter with Potential Unleashed form; but he's also brainwashed Kayla to make sure she would not "betray" him again with his mind control hypnosis trance with his voice, finger snaps and glowing pink eyes to control her body after "absorbing" Vegito and finding her location (he's unaware that Kayla is already escape from him into the mountains, being freed from his control, battle him to average her friends and family with deep hatred towards him and defeating him by free her friends from the pods inside his body). He was also shown his true motivation to be cruel, hungry-power and selfish, do not caring about Kayla's feelings about them or being getting married her at an arrange marriage, become both the strongest fighter and become their new king, force them to become into his slaves and take over the entire Universe. Part of his attraction way more to Kayla and Danielle far more than Denise, Kaylah and Mary does was due to the strength and potency of her untapped Ki energy of Princess Kaylah Spencer. However, despite being in love with Kayla, he did not stop her from leaving upon realising that she and Jimmy love each other at the end of the anime Dragon Ball Z series.

Mega Buu is falling in love with a human female Shenron Jinchuriki named Denise Uzumaki (who's Shawn's beautiful wife and the loving mother of Zesmond Spencer, Brianna, Ashley, Brittany, Tiffany and Kaylah) who's the most beautiful and attractive young woman with angelic beauty and beautiful soft voice as she's the third Jinchuriki host of the eternal dragons: Shenron and Porunga and Earth and Namekian Dragon Balls Birthmarks with the most beautiful voice, he's quite a lust interesting in her because she's Shawn's true side weakness,

Mega Buu's mannerisms change in this form as well. He gains a far more eloquent manner of speech, as well as Gotenks' arrogance. He is more than willing to taunt playing mind games with both Gohan and Kayla, but is also more than aware of the limitations of this new form, learning about the bloodline of the Spencers existence, but thanks to Babidi stole both some Empress Kaylah, Shawn and Kaylah's DNA cells and gain memories to intelligence and knowledge of others like the rest of her family members which he's collected their pure energies, strengths, weaknesses, secret identities, immortality, Eternal youth and cells from 500 years ago, he's stills flirtatious and attracted to Denise, Kaylah, Mary, Danielle and Kayla which is most likely the trait that attracted Super Buu to her and deemed her worthy of becoming a bride all for himself. In the English dub of the manga and anime series, Majin Buu had a penchant for psychological torture, bringing up Piccolo, Goten, and Trunks' disappointment in Gohan as a savior and taunts Jimmy about his relationship with Kayla in their years together. He's touring both physically and mentally abusive towards both Kayla and Melissa a lot the same way like Kaylah and her friends did until Kayla was forced to surrender herself to him as his new bride or killing Gohan and everybody on the planet Earth and the entire universe like the same way as he's did to Danielle to going to kill Shaun and Zesmond in front of her from the last tournament 16 years ago before Kayla was born.

He can do manipulates, used, lied and tricked Jeffrey Prescott by means of hypnotizing him with his hypnosis mind control trace of his voice, finger snaps and glowing pink eyes as his new slave and spy to working with him to do his bidding and betrayed Kaylah and others or threatening to kill his uncle, his girlfriend and friends unless he's just bringing Kaylah to him; which he always carries on his person and learning everything in the top secret informations of the Teen Titans, Dragon Balls, Eternal Dragons, Immortality, Eternal Youth, Saiyan race, Namekian race, Frieza race, Androids, Humans, American Team and Z Fighters for the future.

With Spencer World, Other World, Earth and the entire universe are finally under his control and power as their new king and ruler to force everybody to bow down to him, Mega Buu spends the most of his time to torturing Jeffrey Prescott, Daria, Charlie Parker, Daphne, Damien Blooms, Kathleen, George, Vanessa and Amanda for his amusement and entertainment, until directing his attention to Kaylah, whom he wishes to become his queen as just like what he did to her mother, after a first attempt to have her betroth to him willingly had failed. Maybe Buu used his new-and-improved would control psychic powers, powerful techniques and other special abilities, which he would use to overtake the throne, Spencer World, Other World, Earth and the entire universe at large. Mega Buu, who will not hesitate to destroy anyone he perceives as a threat to his own sinister designs. It is not until Mega Buu gains control of the Princess Kaylah's great-grandmother's purple magical amulet necklace that he fully shows his true colors, becoming arrogant, tyrannical, and short-tempered with his subjects. He also was depicted as evil sinister crazier laughing excessively and in a deranged manner shortly after banishing Jimmy Hawkins and his remain friends to the Snowy mountains, suggesting that Mega Buu was also insane and suffered from hysteria.

Mega Buu is quick to abuse his underlings as a means of releasing his own anger and impatience. Ultimately, this proves to be his final downfall, as Jeffrey Prescott ends up turning rebellion (joining with Jimmy Hawkins and Kaylah's side of see his error ways, past mistakes and hated him for killing his family and their families for years) against Mega Buu in large part because of his cruelty physically and mentally abuse to killing for world domination, power and greedy, betrayal, treachery, broken promises and lies and not giving him credit when it was due for all these years.

Mega Buu's mercilessness more heavily carries over to other characters in the film, especially during the climax; following his hostile rise to power, Mega Buu immediately used his newfound abilities to enjoying and ruthlessly torment Kaylah, her older brother, Zesmond Spencer and four older sisters (Brianna, Ashley, Brittany and Tiffany), Brandi, David Johnson, Rachel, Audrey, Kevin, Julian Brief, Aaron, Renee, Tony, Jared, Christina, Charlie Parker, Daphne, Damien Blooms, Kathleen, Jeffrey Prescott, Daria, Amanda, Charley, Danny, McKenzie, Harry, Victoria, Chris, Teresa, Jason, Leslie, Toby, Trish, George, Bobby, Allison, Vanessa, Jimmy Hawkins and Mew and also their children and grandchildren via physical abuse, humiliation, slavery, and other forms of torture, of which he openly showed amusement.

Mega Buu is also attracted to the last surviving member left of her royal family, Princess Kaylah Spencer (before her, Mary, Danielle and Kayla, it was Kaylah's mother, Denise Uzumaki), but primarily for her body and soul, and not for Kaylah herself as a person after recover from having suffer amnesia since she was three years old. His newly hypnosis mind control trance with his glowing pink eyes, finger snaps and voice to controlling her mind and body was initially for forcing Kaylah to fall desperately in love with him to keep her under in his control so he could make her his new queen (he, Wizard Babidi, Pui Pui, Yakon and Dabura originally planned on killing her like the rest of her family as soon as he will became her King of her beautiful magical dimensional realms homeworld, but at some time later he refused to kill her, instead sparing her life when she was a smaller premature child at the 17th World's Martial Arts Tournament of Spencer World because of her angelic beauty appearance and beautiful soft voice from her late mother); he first creates a golden tiara crown for her from her shackles to do so with a wave of his hand, saying that a girl as beautiful rose as her "should be on the arm of the most powerful warrior in the world". (Much earlier, though, he says in what we would consider being a sexist manner that Kaylah's speechlessness is "a fine quality in a wife").

Pui Pui suddenly concocts a new plot to take over the entire Spencer World, Other World, Earth and the entire universe to take the throne to become a king; he advises Mega Buu to take advantage of Kaylah's enforced marriage by marrying her, himself. Mega Buu forced them bow to him, but they refuse from his orders with his new powerful telekinesis psychic powers, other superhuman techniques and special abilities. In fact; which he uses to humiliate Kaylah and her friends in their entire lives since in her childhood and teen years. Kaylah meanwhile, is turned into Mega Buu's new slave. While lounging about in the palace, Buu offers to make Kaylah be his queen, which she hotly refuses. He then forces Kaylah to marry him or else he will kill her remaining friends and Ms. Timberland. Kaylah reluctantly agrees but refuses to let herself be put down, but she's won't let her friends get hurt and never betray Jimmy Hawkins, because she's still loved him and she's completely falling under his hypnosis mind control trance with his glowing pink eyes, finger snaps and voice. Kaylah is about to go through with the ceremony to marry Mega Buu and about to kiss until she spots Jimmy Hawkins, others and Mew riding on the Flying Nimbus and steals the necklace back from Mega Buu to join them.

His casual demeanor shifts between the good one, and the pure evil versions. Where this Majin Super Buu can shift from his menacing face into a burst of either anger or even jovial emotions. Majin Buu shares one thing in common with his former self — that being his enjoyment towards destroying things and harming life.

This is also seen in his pleasure from destruction where he eliminates the population of the Earth. His impatience is one of his characteristics along with having little to no remorse for life. Even taking pleasure in killing individuals for a enjoyment. In the anime series, Majin Buu has shown a big affinity towards sweets and a gluttonous personality.

Mega Buu was highly intelligent as he himself liked to boast, easily able to manipulate situations and conversations to his advantage. Sometimes whatsoever, Mega Buu was heavily sardonic, frequently replying to attempts at conversation with sarcasm and subtle insults.

He was a fierce and strongest fighter who held his own against the much younger and more powerfully built Kaylah and later Katherine and came very close to killing her from his previous battle with Kaylah did from the past before lead to his death by snapping his neck broken with blood real hard out through his mouth and blast him into the dust with Katherine's Spirit Bomb in Dragon Ball Z: The Origins of Majin Buu.

Biography[]

Background[]

Mega Buu was created by Wizard Babidi after his father Wizard Bibidi died at the end of Supreme Kai, before Kid Buu, Good Buu, Evil Buu and Super Buu were born in existence of the Planet Earth about five million years later and 500 years later. However, despite keeping her childbirth a secret, Wizard Babidi, Pui Pui, Yakon and Dabura are discovered Denise's location after giving birth to a premature smaller baby daughter named Kaylah, killing royal elite soldiers and her escorts (Bethany and Tanya), taking Kaylah hostage and managing to break the seal with Energy Absorber to release Mega Buu from his imprisonment Sealed Ball once again, seizing control of Denise's DNA cells to gave him more far powerful, faster, wiser, smarter, dangerous and strongest fighter than ever before in the entire universe.

Since Denise survived the extraction in her weak state, Wizard Babidi (along with Pui Pui, Yakon and Dabura) tried to have Mega Buu kill her for rejecting the first marriage between Mega Buu and Denise years ago before Shawn got her and their youngest daughter to safety. Soon afterwards, the Wizard Babidi summoned Mega Buu through the Mystic Seal into the beautiful dimensional realms Spencer World and ordered it to destroy the beautiful dimensional realms Spencer World as the Five-Hundred Year Revolution War as the Spencer Clan Massacre. To kill Shawn's four oldest daughters inside their Huge Royal Winter Palace along with their friends and families with his Chocolate Beam technique by turning them chocolate bars and eat them all and also attacked all of their more loving people for his personal revenge (Zesmond Spencer and his remaining friends somehow got escaped from Mega Buu's wrath) in the rampaging rage upon their cities, stores, malls, schools, mountains, villages, homes, farms, temples, communities and other locations burning down into the whole massacre rage. Mega Buu has appears to fight Shawn in long fighting combat before Shawn used his Instant Transmission technique enough to save his wife and youngest daughter safety. Soon afterwards, Denise used her Adamantine Sealing Chains to subdue Mega Buu, planning to seal two eternal dragons and glowing Dragon Balls back inside her again before she dies.

Since Shenron and Porunga's energy and new Super Saiyan/Potential Unleashed powers was too immense to be sealed within an smaller premature half-breed Saiyan hybrid infant like Kaylah, Shawn first used the Dead Demon Consuming Seal to separate and extracted his immortality from himself to transferring into Kaylah and then prepared the Dragon Eight Trigrams Seal to transfer them along with the glowing Earth Dragon Balls and Namekian Dragon Balls Birthmarks within Kaylah. With the chains loosening from the Buu's reduced size and Denise weakened, it attempted to stop the sealing process by killing Kaylah, but both of the parents sacrificed themselves to protect their newborn youngest child and completed the sealing back into the Sealed Ball again with Evil Containment Wave.

Even regarding his desire to marry Princess Kaylah Spencer (before her, Mary, Danielle and Kayla, it was Kaylah's mother, Denise Uzumaki) afterwards, it was solely so he could gain control of the throne by becoming a king once again, destroy Other World, Earth and the entire universe and intended to kill her soon thereafter like the rest of her Spencer family or the Johnson family—though he later reneges on this in an attempt to make her his queen consort all for himself.

Mega Buu was released from the Sealed Ball once again to have his swore revenge on Zesmond Spencer and his friends for

Absorption and Rematch[]

Dragon Ball Z[]

Main articles: Fusion Saga, Search for Survivors, and Majin Buu Transforms

In 500 years later, when it became clear to Super Buu after beating by Gohan in a fight that he wasn't going to destroy Earth or the entire universe with the mighty Gohan in the way after speaking to him when how did he knew a lot everything about him and Kayla along during using his fight with Gotenks was a warm-up, so he devised a trick and knows about Gohan and Kayla. He gathered all his energy and self-destructed making it look like he tried to kill Gohan and the others as he's tried to taking them with him in a blow explosion, the latter escaped with Piccolo, Goten, Melissa, Kelly and Trunks to find Dende, Kayla, Mr. Satan and Bee, but in reality he just made a diversion to plan something by absorbing Gotenks and Piccolo to gain more power and intelligence into himself in one hour to wait for Goten and Trunks do fusion technique again. He's already learning about Kayla stills alive and survive from being attacked by himself, Wizard Babidi and Dabura from the other day during hiding and listening their conversations of everything around the world and reunited with her friends and daughter again by sensing her power level. When all of the heroes had escaped and gathered around in a safe place of Barren Wasteland, Super Buu made himself be known on one hour later to arrival on their location after he's using regeneration and recover from explosion in one hour. Mystic Gohan proposed Super Buu another round to rematch with Kayla facing and confront him for the first time ever in a person, but Super Buu declined, as he's begins to recognizes Kayla's face as he's had see her somewhere before, hearing Gohan address her name and turns out about begins to realizes that he's finds out that Kayla is Shaun and Danielle's youngest daughter, the younger sister of Zesmond, James and Mary's youngest granddaughter and Kaylah's reincarnation human (almost half-Human and half-Saiyan breed hybrid) descendant from roughly 500 years ago during the Spencer Clan Massacre on the dimensional realms Spencer World since the day of her birth and his last battles with her, along with her friends and her husband Jimmy Hawkins as the group of the original American Team like Z Fighters did as the Earth's Special Forces in his former memories, her daughter Katherine, her boyfriend Michael and her friends and daughter's great-great-great grandchildren include David and James before Shaun and Danielle as teenagers along with Brandon, Natalie, Zachary, Jonny, Karen, Hannah, Steve, Scott, Doris, Maria, Haylie and other friends and family at the last 23rd World Martial Tournament on Spencer World as he's defeating along with Frieza, Cooler, Broly, Cell and other villains. He's

instead wanted to fight Goten and Trunks as Gotenks again and asking Kayla to marry him with a marriage proposal, shocking everyone that's something about Kayla is close resembles her distant relative ancestor, because it's was Babidi's idea to be have a real engagement marriage of her angelic beauty and more like her mother Danielle did as Danielle is different similar to her past incarnation counterpart Denise Uzumkai before Kaylah, Mary, Danielle and her. But Gohan remained defiant and said Super Buu's fight was with him, say to do not want her for his wife anyway as she's too young to be marry him and already told her everything about him what did he's done to everyone on the Lookout include Jimmy and saw his true intentions to destroy Spencer World, Earth, Other World and the entire universe. He sensed something peculiar about Super Buu's offer and grow interesting in her. But the Buu remained unshaken and continued to insult the boys and scaring Melissa again with threatening words toward her, which drove them over the curb and they fused into Gotenks at Super Saiyan 3 form again it was revealing that he's tricked them by luring them into his trap.

Then Buu detached two blobs from his body, Kayla senses with her telescopic versions to see two blobs came towards Gotenks and Piccolo, she's trapped them with her bluish white invisible force fields to prevent him from absorbing them, but failed due he's trying to brainwash her and used it to absorb the freshly formed Gotenks and Piccolo, resulting in his more powerful form-Mega Buu or Ultimate Majin Buu as Super Buu more than before. Kayla does to believe that he's the archenemy of her ancestor have defeated him roughly 500 years ago because he's killed her ancestor's whole family, attack her people, destruction of the dimensional realms homeworld and friends for get revenge against her family for defeating him and learn their royal bloodline of the Spencers mastermind behind of the Spencer Clan Massacre on Spencer World by Wizard Babidi, but she's doesn't want to believe his story so mean and cruel, she will swore to defeat Super Buu for hurting her daughter, torture Kelly and also killing her friends and family on the Lookout and so many innocent people on Earth.

Gohan remained undeterred saying that he would never back down from Mega Buu and Kayla doesn't trust him of his mind games and taunting words. Piccolo's superb mind begins to playing tricks both on Gohan and Kayla, and Buu keeps saying things that will not make Gohan fight to his full potential, taking her with him as his hostage like he's doing to her mother, like how the

absorbed beings think of him and marry Kayla be too real serious taking by force, but she's still refusing his proposal and told him that she never will marry him for the first place and the answer is no; because of her ancestors and family hated Wizard Babidi, Frieza, Cell and him for torturing and killing them all, using and exploited their strengths and weaknesses for their amusement; that she still refuses marry him or join him like he did to her mother, grandmother and others did, when she's let her frustrations takes over and took her as his hostage. Gohan's anger gets the better of him, Kayla tells Gohan to don't listen to him that's he's only playing mind games on him, toying with him like Frieza and Cell did, she's using her Galactic Donut trap to release Gohan out of the sight, dodge from Buu's Super Kamehameha wave, she's using redirecting the Super Kamehameha wave back at him, confront her and show her serious angry stare at him is about to fight him by she's in his way and lure him away by stalling him enough for a chance as Gohan and the others to escape, Gohan is healed by Dende's healing powers and he engages the new Buu in battle. But he soon discovers that Mega Buu's powers far surpass his own, even at full potential. He also begins dishing out new moves, like the Special Beam Cannon and the Galactic Donut, but he knew she's stalling him to give her friends and daughter to get escape from this area, continue to hunting down and chase her and Gohan through the rocks and he's overpowering her to make her to surrender herself to him as she's truly too scared of him as he's reminding her like her ancestor, Princess Kaylah Spencer, paternal grandmother and her mother did and see Tien Shinhan for the first time. After Mega Buu had his fill of testing out his new powers, he beings to charge his Destroy Everything! attack, prepared to kill Gohan, Tien, Kayla, Dende, Melissa, Kelly, Bee and Mr. Satan.

Hercule foolishly tries to shoot the incoming ball with his gun, saying his friendship with Buu is officially terminated. Out of nowhere, a bright yellow beam clashes with the destructive ball. Tien emerges into the fight, having shot his Neo Tri-beam. He comments on how Gohan has changed inside and out and he's proud of him and Kayla too. He then prepares to stall Mega Buu by attacking him with his strongest attack in Dragon Ball Z, the Ultimate Neo-Tri Beam Barrage. However, there is not even a scratch on the Buu and saying to Tien that he's weaker than Gohan, Kayla and others. The monster laughs manically as he prepares another energy ball. He's about to level the terrain when our hero emerges with a timely arrival and cuts Buu with a Destructo Disc. Goku has come with the finest plan to finally bring down the evil Majin Buu.

"Death"[]

Mega Buu comments on how Gohan and Goten's "Dad" finally came to face him for the second time. He then effortlessly takes control of his lower half. It gives a crushing kick to the unsuspecting Tien, knocking him out cold. He then gets ready to battle our hero. But Goku tosses Gohan a Potara Earring, extremely mystical objects that will allow two people to fuse forever into the ultimate being. But Gohan fails to catch the small object and goes looking for it while Goku stalls Mega Buu.

The duo battle it out as Goku's new Full-Power Super Saiyan 3 form stays on par with the seemingly invincible monster- but is unable to land any critical hits. Mega Buu then reveals he was just he was playing around and charges Goku, preparing to kill him. But suddenly, he yells in pain and transforms into Namek form Buu. It's revealed that Gotenks had defused inside of him, making him loose over 1/3 of his power. It is then that he absorbs Gohan and becomes Ultimate Buu.

Death[]

Mega Buu dies when Vegeta and Goku pull Trunks, Goten, Piccolo, Good Buu and Gohan out of inside Mega Buu

Legacy[]

Mega Buu's memories passed away has pass to his present reincarnation counterpart, Super Buu before Evil Buu ate the Good Buu

Film Appearances[]

The Origins of Majin Buu[]

Main article: Dragon Ball Z: The Origins of Majin Buu

His first appears on the movie where he's arrived and release once again to foot on the dimensional realms world as Spencer World from the imprisonment Sealed Ball by Wizard Babidi, Pui Pui, Yakon and Dabura with Denise's pure energy after giving birth to her newborn premature daughter Kaylah during the female human Jinchuriki's weakness is childbirth inside break the seal with Energy Absorber to destroy Spencer World by taking his sworn revenge on the Spencer family and Johnson family for defeating him years ago by killing Shawn and his whole family to take the throne and want to be a new king again.

Mega Buu shows himself evil happily laughter to meeting Brianna, Ashley, Brittany and Tiffany with their friends and friends' families inside the Huge Royal Winter Palace as he's planning to his swore revenge on them for pranking on him many times, being defeated by them and humiliated him and decided intent to killing them all by turning them into chocolate bars, Julian Briefs bravely charged at him with his full speed and Afterimage Technique, but Julian was first victim turns into a chocolate bar and

Fusion Reborn[]

Main article: Dragon Ball Z: Fusion Reborn

He's mentioned by Wizard Babidi to Frieza, Cell and others a whole truth about him during the flashbacks and revealed that he's masterminded of genocide attack massacre on Spencer World to wipe out of the Saiyan and Fourth Emperor Shawn Spencer and his family so he wanted to be a new king ruler of the entire universe, but he's failed his quest from last 500 years ago.

Power[]

Main article: List of Power Levels

Manga and Anime

Mega Buu is the most powerful, fastest, strongest and greater Majin Buu counterparts because he has grown very strong over the past five-hundred years ago, although he is also very unpredictable due to his diverse amount of powers, many of which Buu has yet to reveal. As is the case with his counterparts, Buu has complete control over his body and is able to alter it however he pleases. In his case though, his control seems to be vastly superior.

After his Majin Buu, Evil Buu, Super Buu and Kid Buu counterparts: being released his full power and formed into the powerful Mega Buu. He can do the strong Pure Evil Kamehameha wave to attack others similar to Goku's Kamehameha wave. He has all of his normal attacks, fighting moves, techniques and special abilities, but there twice as strong, and he has no other powers like his other Majin Buu counterparts.

Films

In Dragon Ball Z: The Origins of Majin Buu, Mega Buu want to become the most powerful, faster and strongest fighter in the universe,

Video games

In

Techniques and Special Abilities[]

Flight -

Ki Blast -

Ki Sense -

Kiai -

Immortality -

Absorption -

Intelligence -

Knowledge -

Magical Powers -

Teleportation Mission -

Force Field Generation -

Force Field Manipulation -

Force-Field Combat -

Pure Evil Kamehameha -

Mystic Attack - Mega Buu continuously uses this technique to stretch his limbs at incredible distances.

Regeneration and Body Manipulation - Mega Buu has complete powers of regeneration that far surpasses that of the Nameks and Cell. He is able to easily regenerate from any wound, no matter how severe it is, even if his entire body is vaporised. However, it was stated that the power of the Genkidama and a kiai would be powerful enough to completely eradicate Buu's body, destroying every single atom in his body. It is also shown that Kaylah and Katherine both have an ability that could kill him as well. To get around this, he disperses countless pieces of himself so that there will always be something to regenerate from.

Video Game Appearances[]

Mega Buu is the playable character appears in the following video games appearances include:

Voice Actors[]

Japanese: Kōzō Shioya

Ocean Group dub: Brian Dobson

FUNimation Dub: Justin Cook

Latin American Dub: Mario Sauret

Brazilian Dub: Wellington Lima

Portuguese Dub: Joaquim Monchique

French Dub: Patrick Borg

Italian Dub: Riccardo Rovatti

Polish Dub: Krzysztof Tyniec

Battles[]

Movies[]

Mega Buu vs. Andy, Claire, Carter and Crystal (Flashbacks)

Mega Buu vs. Emperor Matthew and Empress Kaylah (Flashbacks)

Mega Buu vs. Empress Kaylah (Flashbacks)

Mega Buu vs. James Spencer and Rita

Mega Buu, Pui Pui and Dabura vs. Patrick, Henry Johnson, Bradley Dawson, Jillian, Bethany and Tanya

Mega Buu vs. David Johnson, Rachel, Aaron, Renee, Tony, Christina, Audrey, Kevin and Julian Brief

Mega Buu vs. Zesmond Spencer, Brianna, Ashley, Brittany and Tiffany

Mega Buu vs. Shawn and Denise

Trivia[]

Mega Buu was the one and first of the movie characters along with Cooler, Garlic Jr, Turles, Lord Slug, Bojack, Android 13 and Broly in the Dragon Ball Z movies.

He's mentioned by his descendant and reincarnation Evil Buu, Super Buu and Kid Buu counterparts.

He's the most powerful, dangerous, pure evil and arrogant villains of the Dragon Ball Z series, movies and video games.

He's mentioned by Wizard Babidi, Pui Pui, Yakon, Dabura and Super Buu when he's has appears on the episode during in the series and movies of the flashbacks from the past.

Difference Majin Buu counterparts: Super Buu used the absorption technique to absorb Gotenks, Piccolo and Gohan to stolen powers, clothing and personalities before defeating and transforming back into the original Kid Buu again in series. But Mega Buu is more pure evil than his Super form counterpart: Super Buu with Immortality, intelligent and knowledge skills to exploit all of warrior's strengths, weaknesses and secret identities include his nemesis Shawn Spencer and his friends and family.

He's has been first appears in the manga and anime Dragon Ball series, movies and video games appearances.

He's first to died by the hands of Princess Kaylah, her daughter, Katherine and her friends during the movie.

Mega Buu has the romantic lust feelings for Empress Kaylah, Denise, Kaylah, Mary, Danielle and Kayla as his new bride, but they're rejecting him to become his queen to rule Spencer World, Earth and the entire universe for his greed, power, destruction and world dominance.

Gallery[]

References[]

Dragon Ball Z: The Origins of Majin Buu, 1999

Dragon Ball Z episode 265, "Majin Buu Transforms"

Dragon Ball Z episode 266, "The Old Kai's Weapon"

Dragon Ball Z episode 267, "Ready to Fuse?"

Site Navigation[]