La Compania (Church of the Society of Jesus), Quito (must see)

The Church of the Society of Jesus is a Catholic clerical complex located in the historical center of the city of Quito. The religious edifice features gorgeous Spanish Baroque architecture.

Work on the church was started by Jesuit architects in 1605, and it was completed 160 years later. Although the Spanish priest Francisco Ayerd took charge of the construction, the mantel quickly changed hands. Eventually, the priest Venancio Gandolfi restarted work on the unfinished facade, which was completed in 1765.

Having been built over 160 years and with different architects, the church combines different architectural styles, although the Baroque style predominates.

The most impressive fact about the church is that seven tons of gold were used for the walls and ceilings. The central nave and the domes are decorated with gold as well. The façade of the main temple is entirely carved in volcanic stone.

Besides the beautiful architectural touches, there are 56 sculptures and 44 oil paintings. Some of the most famous paintings include Nicolas Javier de Goribar’s masterpieces “16 Prophets,” “The Four Evangelists,” and “The Cardinals of the Society of Jesus.”

There are also sculptures by Bernardo de Legarda. On each side of the main entrance, visitors can see paintings showing Hell and the Final Judgment. In addition, the guest will find representations of native flora and symbols of the ancestral peoples of Ecuador hidden in the church’s pillars, as well as an old organ dating back to 1889.

In recent years, Pope John Paul II held a mass at the church in 1985 during his visit to Ecuador, and Pope Francis visited the church in 2015.

Historical Religious Buildings Tour

As a former Spanish colony, Ecuador and its capital city Quito are home to literally dozens of Catholic churches. The Spaniards brought their faith into the new country and built many great temples here, some of which even pre-date the city of Quito itself.

Among the key local landmarks of ecclesiastical architecture is the Santo Domingo Church, dating back to the 16th century and showcasing a... view more

Tour Duration: 2 Hour(s)

Travel Distance: 2.7 Km or 1.7 Miles