SINGAPORE: At least one celebrity couple won’t be celebrating Valentine’s Day together.

MediaCorp Radio’s Class95 DJ Glenn Ong announced in a brief statement at 8.30 am during his morning radio show Morning Express – on Friday the 13th – that he and wife Jamie Yeo have gone their separate ways.

“To my close friends and family who are finding out about this only now, I apologise. Jamie and I have parted ways. Okay. That’s it,” said Ong, 38.

Two songs followed: Kanye West’s “Stronger” and Duffy’s “Rain on Your Parade”.

MediaCorp subsequently announced that the couple had “grown apart in recent years due to their careers and individual differences”. The decision was a “mutual” and “amicable” one.

Ong and Yeo have officially filed for separation and have been “living apart for a while”.

Before Ong made the announcement, his show’s co-host Mark Van Cuylenberg spoke up on-air on the decision to announce it on radio.

“Glenn has the feeling he should be the first one to break the news, and what better way than on the programme he hosts? He will make this announcement only once. He ain’t picking up the phone.”

Ong and Yeo were unavailable to comment as of press time.

The couple started dating in 2001 and was married in December 2004 in New Creation Church.

Prior to this, Ong was married to former Gold90FM DJ Kate Reyes. They divorced in 2003.

Yeo, 31, was a full-time DJ at 987FM for six years before joining ESPN Star Sports as a television presenter in 2006. She also blogs on a local online portal.

In her last entry on the topic “Are Singapore men romantic?”, Yeo wrote: “(Men,) it is your duty to romance us, even if we’re fussy, picky and annoying. For we are also beautiful, sexy, loving and endearing. And don’t forget, you need us. We bear you children.”

The couple has no children but have a pet Jack Russell terrier named Fudge that they shared in their East Coast apartment.

The news came as a shock to their friends, colleagues and fans. “I had no idea, honestly. I didn’t get an inkling of anything,” said a surprised Florence Lian. The former “Singapore Idol” judge and current senior vice-president of marketing/creative services at MediaCorp Enterprises had hired Ong in 1993 during her tenure as programmes manager for MediaCorp Radio.

Liana Osman, 25, a long-time fan of Ong, didn’t expect the disclosure. “When he first said he had something to announce, I thought it might be that Jamie’s pregnant,” she said.

Perhaps the split had been coming for some time. An industry insider, who declined to be named, interviewed Yeo in early January and found it odd that Yeo neglected to mention her husband. “Every time I brought up the issue of Glenn, she would evade it.”

“Celebrity relationships in general are hard,” said Lian. “You’re under the microscope and it provides stress in a relationship.”

–

Channel News Asia

SINGAPORE: Wedding gifts came early for celebrity couple Jamie Yeo and Glenn Ong last Friday. They both snagged trophies at the second Singapore Radio Awards, which saw 36 awards given out to radio personalities and their stations.

Jamie, 28, who won the Favourite Radio Personality and the Carlsberg Friendliest Radio Personality Award for 987FM, said: “I’m so surprised and happy right now, but I’m actually quite worried about my (white bustier) dress falling!”

Incidentally, Jamie and Class 95FM deejay Glenn’s wedding will also be held at the same venue – the Shangri-La Hotel Island Ballroom – on Nov 19. The couple signed their Registry of Marriages papers at the New Creation Church at Suntec City last December.

“It’s going to be very romantic, with a red and gold theme throughout,” gushed Jamie about her Saturday wedding.

“I’ve already got my dress designed by one of the up-and-coming local designers, who also made the dress I’m wearing tonight. It’s got a really ‘princess-y’ feel to it.”

Glenn, 35, expressed shock over his win for Radio Personality of the Year – Media’s Choice.

“It didn’t register for a moment when they announced my name just now,” he said. “This year’s win certainly made up for last year’s embarrassing incident where I walked away empty-handed. Jamie and I are going home happy tonight.”

MediaCorp deputy group chief executive officer Shaun Seow paid tribute to deejays at the awards.

“A radio deejay’s job isn’t just about talking and playing music. You may have millions of listeners, but you talk to each listener as if there is just that one person who matters in the whole universe,” he said.

Brian Richmond, 58, would have agreed. The veteran Gold 90.5FM deejay received the Lifetime Achievement Award after 34 years in the business. He was also featured in the first instalment of Today’s weekly ICONS series.

“I started out for the love of radio and I never expected this,” he said. “This is certainly the icing on the cake – it’s a bonus.

“It means so much to me right now.” – TODAY

Channel News Asia