SINGAPORE: At least one celebrity couple won’t be celebrating Valentine’s Day together.

MediaCorp Radio’s Class95 DJ Glenn Ong announced in a brief statement at 8.30 am during his morning radio show Morning Express – on Friday the 13th – that he and wife Jamie Yeo have gone their separate ways.

“To my close friends and family who are finding out about this only now, I apologise. Jamie and I have parted ways. Okay. That’s it,” said Ong, 38.

Two songs followed: Kanye West’s “Stronger” and Duffy’s “Rain on Your Parade”.

MediaCorp subsequently announced that the couple had “grown apart in recent years due to their careers and individual differences”. The decision was a “mutual” and “amicable” one.

Ong and Yeo have officially filed for separation and have been “living apart for a while”.

Before Ong made the announcement, his show’s co-host Mark Van Cuylenberg spoke up on-air on the decision to announce it on radio.

“Glenn has the feeling he should be the first one to break the news, and what better way than on the programme he hosts? He will make this announcement only once. He ain’t picking up the phone.”

Ong and Yeo were unavailable to comment as of press time.

The couple started dating in 2001 and was married in December 2004 in New Creation Church.

Prior to this, Ong was married to former Gold90FM DJ Kate Reyes. They divorced in 2003.

Yeo, 31, was a full-time DJ at 987FM for six years before joining ESPN Star Sports as a television presenter in 2006. She also blogs on a local online portal.

In her last entry on the topic “Are Singapore men romantic?”, Yeo wrote: “(Men,) it is your duty to romance us, even if we’re fussy, picky and annoying. For we are also beautiful, sexy, loving and endearing. And don’t forget, you need us. We bear you children.”

The couple has no children but have a pet Jack Russell terrier named Fudge that they shared in their East Coast apartment.

The news came as a shock to their friends, colleagues and fans. “I had no idea, honestly. I didn’t get an inkling of anything,” said a surprised Florence Lian. The former “Singapore Idol” judge and current senior vice-president of marketing/creative services at MediaCorp Enterprises had hired Ong in 1993 during her tenure as programmes manager for MediaCorp Radio.

Liana Osman, 25, a long-time fan of Ong, didn’t expect the disclosure. “When he first said he had something to announce, I thought it might be that Jamie’s pregnant,” she said.

Perhaps the split had been coming for some time. An industry insider, who declined to be named, interviewed Yeo in early January and found it odd that Yeo neglected to mention her husband. “Every time I brought up the issue of Glenn, she would evade it.”

“Celebrity relationships in general are hard,” said Lian. “You’re under the microscope and it provides stress in a relationship.”

–