The European Commission, represented by European Commissioner for Enlargement, Olivér Várhelyi, and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by Chairwoman of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Borjana Krišto, organized and co-chaired the first European Union-Bosnia and Herzegovina High Level Political Forum (hereafter Forum).

The Forum was attended by members of the Joint Collegium of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Heads of Clubs, the Prime Ministers of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska, the Prime Ministers of ten Cantons of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Mayor of Brčko District.

The participants underlined the importance of the decision of the European Council to grant Bosnia and Herzegovina EU candidate status and consider this decision a new impetus to undertake the necessary reforms. Accordingly, the participants discussed the adoption and prioritization of reforms required for Bosnia and Herzegovina to make progress on the European path, in particular with view to meeting the conditions for opening of accession negotiations as soon as possible.

The participants recalled the ‘Guidelines, Principles and Goals in the Executive and Legislative Authorities at the level of BiH for the period of 2022-2026′, as well as the 12 June ‘Political Agreement on Principles for ensuring a functional Bosnia and Herzegovina that advances on the European path‘.

The participants reaffirmed that they will be guided by the European Commission’s Opinion on Bosnia and Herzegovina‘s Membership Application and the Analytical Report, as well as subsequent country reports.

The participants unequivocally underlined the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, comprised of Bosniaks, Croats, Serbs as constituent peoples (along with Others), and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina.

A set of immediate deliverables in line with the 14 Key Priorities of the Commission Opinion have been agreed.

The participants also reaffirmed their commitment to create an environment conducive for advancing reforms/enhancing cooperation in a view to harmonize the approach by all levels of authority through the Coordination Mechanism.

The European Commission confirms its continued readiness to support Bosnia and Herzegovina through financial and technical assistance in delivering on the 14 Key Priorities.

The participants agreed to reconvene the Forum in 6 months’ time.