The practice of species delimitation using molecular data commonly leads to the revealing of species complexes and an increase in the number of delimited species. In a few instances, however, DNA-based taxonomy has led to lumping together of previously described species. Here, we delimit species in the genus Cryptogemma (Gastropoda: Conoidea: Turridae), a group of deep-sea snails with a wide geographical distribution, primarily by using the mitochondrial COI gene. Three approaches of species delimitation (ABGD, mPTP and GMYC) were applied to define species partitions. All approaches resulted in eight species. According to previous taxonomic studies and shell morphology, 23 available names potentially apply to the eight Cryptogemma species that were recognized herein. Shell morphometrics, radular characters and geographical and bathymetric distributions were used to link type specimens to these delimited species. In all, 23 of these available names are here attributed to seven species, resulting in 16 synonymizations, and one species is described as new: Cryptogemma powelli sp. nov. We discuss the possible reasons underlying the apparent overdescription of species within Cryptogemma, which is shown here to constitute a rare case of DNA-based species lumping in the hyper-diversified superfamily Conoidea.

The deep-sea malacofauna of temperate Australia remains comparatively poorly known. However, a recent influx of DNA-suitable material obtained from a series of deep-sea cruises has facilitated integrative taxonomic study on the Conoidea (Caenogastropoda : Neogastropoda). Building on a recent molecular phylogeny of the conoidean family Raphitomidae, this study focussed on the genera Gladiobela and Pagodibela (both Criscione, Hallan, Puillandre & Fedosov, 2020). We subjected a representative mtDNA cox1 dataset of deep-sea raphitomids to ABGD, which recognised 14 primary species hypotheses (PSHs), 9 of which were converted to secondary species hypotheses (SSHs). Following the additional examination of the shell and hypodermic radula features, as well as consideration of bathymetric and geographic data, seven of these SSHs were recognised as new to science and given full species rank. Subsequently, systematic descriptions are provided herein. Of these, five are attributed to Gladiobela (three of which are endemic to Australia and two more widely distributed) and two are placed in Pagodibela (one endemic to southern Australia and one widespread in the Pacific). The rarity of many 'turrids' reported in previous studies is confirmed herein, as particularly indicated by highly disjunct geographic records for two taxa. Additionally, several of the studied taxa exhibit wide Indo-Pacific distributions, suggesting that wide geographic ranges in deep-sea 'turrids' may be more common than previously assumed. Finally, impediments to deep-sea 'turrid' taxonomy in light of such comparative rarity and unexpectedly wide distributions are discussed.

Recent sampling efforts in the deep seas of southern and eastern Australia have generated a wealth of DNA-suitable material of neogastropods of the family Raphitomidae. Based on this material, a molecular phylogeny of the family has revealed a considerable amount of genus and species level lineages previously unknown to science. These taxa are now the focus of current integrative taxonomic research. As part of this ongoing investigation, this study focuses on the genera Austrobela, Austrotheta (both Criscione, Hallan, Puillandre & Fedosov, 2020), Spergo Dall, 1895 and Theta Clarke, 1959. We subjected a comprehensive mitochondrial DNA dataset of representative deep-sea raphitomids to Automatic Barcode Gap Discovery, which recognized 24 primary species hypotheses (PSHs). Following additional evaluation of shell and radular features, as well as examination of geographic and bathymetric ranges, 18 of these PSHs were converted to secondary species hypotheses (SSHs). Based on the evidence available, the most likely speciation mechanisms involved were evaluated for each pair of sister SSHs, including niche partitioning. Eleven SSHs were recognized as new and their systematic descriptions are provided herein. Of these, four were attributed to Austrobela, one to Austrotheta, four to Spergo and two to Theta. While all new species are endemic to Australian waters, other species studied herein exhibit wide Indo-Pacific distributions, adding to the growing body of evidence suggesting that wide geographic ranges in deep-sea Raphitomidae are more common than previously assumed.

The deep sea of temperate southeastern Australia appears to be a 'hotspot' for diversity and endemism of conoidean neogastropods of the family Raphitomidae. Following a series of expeditions in the region, a considerable amount of relevant DNA-suitable material has become available. A molecular phylogeny based on this material has facilitated the identification of diagnostic morphological characters, allowing the circumscription of monophyletic genera and the introduction of several new genus-level taxa. Both named and new genera are presently being investigated through integrative taxonomy, with the discovery of a significant number of undescribed species. As part of this ongoing investigation, our study focuses on the genera Famelica Bouchet & Warén, 1980, Glaciotomella Criscione, Hallan, Fedosov & Puillandre, 2020 and Rimosodaphnella Cossmann, 1914. We subjected a comprehensive mitochondrial DNA dataset of representative deep-sea raphitomids to the species delimitation methods ABGD and ASAP that recognised 18 and 15 primary species hypotheses (PSHs) respectively. Following additional evaluation of shell and radular features, and examination of geographic and bathymetric ranges, nine of these PSHs were converted to secondary species hypotheses (SSHs). Four SSHs (two in Famelica and two in Rimosodaphnella) were recognised as new, and formal descriptions are provided herein.

This study presents the first record of the previously monotypic family Bouchetispiridae (Neogastropoda: Conoidea) outside of New Caledonia and provides the taxonomic description of Bouchetispira ponderi n. sp. from deep waters off the coast of New South Wales, Australia. Molecular analysis based on cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI), 16S ribosomal RNA (16S rRNA) and 12S ribosomal RNA (12S rRNA) mitochondrial markers confirms its placement within the family, which is corroborated based on similarities of the shell and hypodermic radula to its sister taxon Bouchetispira vitrea. B. ponderi differs from the latter in having shouldered, distinctly less convex whorls and a thicker, more opaque shell, as well as in details of the radula. Furthermore, the molecular results presented herein support its recognition as a new species. B. ponderi bears notable similarities in several shell characters to Belomitra pacifica (Belomitridae), providing another example of convergence with regard to shell morphology in the Neogastropoda.