The anatomy and evolution of the radular apparatus in predatory marine gastropods of the superfamily Conoidea is reconstructed on the basis of a molecular phylogeny, based on three mitochondrial genes (COI, 12S and 16S) for 102 species. A unique feeding mechanism involving use of individual marginal radular teeth at the proboscis tip for stabbing and poisoning of prey is here assumed to appear at the earliest stages of evolution of the group. The initial major evolutionary event in Conoidea was the divergence to two main branches. One is characterized by mostly hypodermic marginal teeth and absence of an odontophore, while the other possesses a radula with primarily duplex marginal teeth, a strong subradular membrane and retains a fully functional odontophore. The radular types that have previously been considered most ancestral, “prototypic” for the group (flat marginal teeth; multicuspid lateral teeth of Drilliidae; solid recurved teeth of Pseudomelatoma and Duplicaria), were found to be derived conditions. Solid recurved teeth appeared twice, independently, in Conoidea — in Pseudomelatomidae and Terebridae. The Terebridae, the sister group of Turridae, are characterized by very high radular variability, and the transformation of the marginal radular teeth within this single clade repeats the evolution of the radular apparatus across the entire Conoidea.

A new genus-level classification of the Conoidea is presented, based on the molecular phylogeny of Puillandre et al. in the accompanying paper. Fifteen lineages are recognized and ranked as families to facilitate continuity in the treatment of the names Conidae (for 'cones') and Terebridae in their traditional usage. The hitherto polyphyletic 'Turridae' is now resolved as 13 monophyletic families, in which the 358 currently recognized genera and subgenera are placed, or tentatively allocated: Conorbidae (2 (sub) genera), Borsoniidae (34), Clathurellidae (21), Mitromorphidae (8), Mangeliidae (60), Raphitomidae (71), Cochlespiridae (9), Drilliidae (34), Pseudomelatomidae (=Crassispiridae) (59), Clavatulidae (14), Horaiclavidae new family (28), Turridae s. s. (16) and Strictispiridae (2). A diagnosis with description of the shell and radulae is provided for each of these families.

The Conoidea superfamily, comprised of cone snails, terebrids, and turrids, is an exceptionally promising group for the discovery of natural peptide toxins. The potential of conoidean toxins has been realized with the distribution of the first Conus (cone snail) drug, Prialt (ziconotide), an analgesic used to alleviate chronic pain in HIV and cancer patients. Cone snail toxins (conotoxins) are highly variable, a consequence of a high mutation rate associated to duplication events and positive selection. As Conus and terebrids diverged in the early Paleocene, the toxins from terebrids (teretoxins) may demonstrate highly divergent and unique functionalities. Recent analyses of the Terebridae, a largely distributed family with more than 300 described species, indicate they have evolutionary and pharmacological potential. Based on a three gene (COI, 12S and 16S) molecular phylogeny, including ~50 species from the West-Pacific, five main terebrid lineages were discriminated: two of these lineages independently lost their venom apparatus, and one venomous lineage was previously unknown. Knowing the phylogenetic relationships within the Terebridae aids in effectively targeting divergent lineages with novel peptide toxins. Preliminary results indicate that teretoxins are similar in structure and composition to conotoxins, suggesting teretoxins are an attractive line of research to discover and develop new therapeutics that target ion channels and receptors. Using conotoxins as a guideline, and innovative natural products discovery strategies, such as the Concerted Discovery Strategy, the potential of the Terebridae and their toxins are explored as a pioneering pharmacological resource.

Venomous marine snails (superfamily Conoidea) are a remarkably biodiverse marine invertebrate lineage (featuring more than 10,000 species). Conoideans use complex venoms (up to 100 different components for each species) to capture prey and for other biotic interactions. Molecular phylogeny and venom peptide characterization provide an unusual multidisciplinary view of conoidean biodiversity at several taxonomic levels. Venom peptides diverge between species at an unprecedented rate through hypermutation within gene families. Clade divergence within a genus occurs without recruiting new gene families when a saltatory event, such as colonization of new prey types (e.g., fish), leads to a new radiation. Divergence between genera in the same family involves substantial divergence in gene families. In the superfamily Conoidea, the family groups recruited distinct sets of different venom gene superfamilies. The associated morphological, behavioral, and prey-preference changes that accompany these molecular changes are unknown for most conoidean lineages, except for one genus, Conus, for which many associated phenotypic changes have been documented.

Puillandre, N., Meyer, C. P., Bouchet, P. & Olivera, B. M. (2011). Genetic divergence and geographical variation in the deep-water Conus orbignyi complex (Mollusca: Conoidea). —Zoologica Scripta, 40, 350–363. The cone snails (family Conidae) are a hyperdiverse lineage of venomous gastropods. Two standard markers, COI and ITS2, were used to define six genetically divergent groups within a subclade of Conidae that includes Conus orbignyi; each of these was then evaluated based on their shell morphology. We conclude that three forms, previously regarded as subspecies of C. orbignyi are distinct species, now recognized as C. orbignyi, C. elokismenos and C. coriolisi. In addition, three additional species (C. pseudorbignyi, C. joliveti and C. comatosa) belong to this clade. Some of the proposed species (e.g. C. elokismenos) are possibly in turn complexes comprising multiple species. Groups such as Conidae illustrate the challenges generally faced in species delimitation in biodiverse lineages. In the case of C. orbignyi complex, they are not only definable, genetically divergent lineages, but also considerable geographical variation within each group. Our study suggests that an intensive analysis of multiple specimens within a single locality helps to minimize the confounding effects of geographical variation and can be a useful starting point for circumscribing different species within such a confusing complex.