“Those who touch our lives, stay in our hearts forever. Greatly loved, deeply missed”

Barry Lee Davis, son of Onnie Davis and Charles Spady, was born September 19, 1970 in Fairview, VA. He was also nurtured by Freddie Young who accepted Barry as his own son. On Sunday, June 30, 2024 Barry peacefully departed this life with his family and friends by his side at Sentara Virginia Beach General Hospital.

He attended the public schools of Northampton County and graduated with the Class of 1988. He received his Bachelor of Science Degree from Norfolk State University in Business Management/Information Technology.

Barry was affectionately known as “Black” by his many friends and while others knew him as “Dwayne.” However, family referred to him by different names—“Bare”, “B”, “Blove”, “Cutter”, and “Uncle Barry.”

His employment included being a security guard at Picasso’s, car salesman, David B. Long & Sons and Davis Pressure Washing & Restoration.

Barry joined First Baptist Church Capeville at an early age and served as an Usher, a position he took great pride in. Even though he moved away from the Shore, he quickly united himself with other believers and attended church regularly. He was an avid reader of the Bible and studied diligently, reading it every day—adamant about telling others of the goodness of God. His disability did not deter him at all. Barry willingly put into practice those things that he was taught. He loved gospel music and traveling to different places.

“Bare” was very loveable, easy going and strong-willed all at the same time. He tried to be the best that he could be, reaching out to help those in need. His nieces and nephews simply adored him; he tried to set an example for them and didn’t mind keeping them in line even after some of them were grown. His love was genuine, and he loved “Mae”, his family and friends unconditionally.

Determined to continue to live life to the fullest, he took four classes at NSU, went shopping as he loved looking savvy, and had a garden planted in which he dictated to others what to do. His favorite pastime was going outside and sitting for hours listening to music or talking on the phone. Barry lived a blessed life. No matter where he went or what he did, he always remembered home and his upbringing.

He was predeceased by his dad, Charles Spady, stepdad Freddie Young, maternal grandparents, Lee & Etta Stratton, and great grandparents Joe & Onnie Lockwood, aunts Hazel Coles and Brenda Stratton, Uncle Joe Edwards, and his best friend Prentice Williams (Skeat).

Left to carry out his legacy of love and cherish his memories are: mother Onnie Davis; stepmom, Paulette Williams; grandson Khari Waddy, GA; sisters, Tenesa Stratton Eastville, VA, Tanya Travis Virginia Beach, VA; Tishia Oatman Norfolk, VA, Lisa Spady (William) Winston-Salem, NC; brothers (Ceatrice Glover Raleigh, NC, Leo Hilliard Norfolk, VA; aunts, Barbara Edwards, Frances Wynder, Gloria Stratton; Shirley Spady, Rose Davis; uncles Leroy Stratton and Curtis Smith, cousins reared as brothers, Michael Davis, Markie Davis, Shawn Stratton, Trawn Stratton, Tavarus Stratton; numerous aunts and uncles, best friends: Melody Thomas, William Douglas, Tony Morris, G Money, Mark Rice, Charles Reamon (CJ), Gary Onley, Clym Jones and a host of aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, cousins, other relatives and friends.

“Those we love don’t go away, they walk beside us every day—unseen, unheard but always near

Still loved, still missed and very dear”