Orenburg State Medical University is a popular medical institution established in 1944 and located in the beautiful city of Orenburg, Russia. It is affiliated with the Ministry of Health of Russian Federation and currently, over 35,000 medical students have graduated.

University is one of the popular medical colleges in Russia for Indian students since its stabilization it has so many awards for its great development in the field of medicine. Candidates can coordinate with highly qualified professors have mastery in their field and learn lots of new techniques. Orenburg Medical University is known for its high-quality medical education and world-class professionals have years of experience in their field. It provides a hostel facility and lots of accommodation to Indian and foreign medical candidates at an affordable cost. Due to quality education and better accommodation, it has become the best choice for pursuing MBBS in Russia.

Orenburg State Medical University Summary

Why Choose Orenburg State Medical University?

Offer MBBS program at low cost.

High standard of medical education.

No English language test required like IELTS/ TOEFL Exam.

The medium of education is English.

Hostel facility is available for Indian candidates.

Best for MBBS Abroad.

Over 1000 Indian students studying currently.

Offer quality education to foreign candidates.

One of the popular NMC Approved Medical Universities in Russia.

Recognized by WHO so MBBS degree is globally accepted.

Facilities like sports, library, internet, etc. available for foreign candidates.

The University has 3 hostel buildings.

It has 47 departments of medical science.

Around 200 medical graduates pass every year who serve at different corners of the world.

Orenburg State Medical University Eligibility Criteria

Indian candidates who are looking to study MBBS at OSMU need to fulfill the admission criteria mentioned by the University. Basically, the students need to qualify NEET Exam, apart from this there are some more that candidates need to meet before admission. Below we have mentioned the Orenburg State Medical University Eligibility required for admission here.

Orenburg State Medical University Admission Process

Foreign students who are looking to apply for admission to the university need to follow the easy admission process as mentioned by the university. But, before applying for admission they must be sure about all the important documents and other criteria that are compulsory for admission here. Applicants who want more information about Orenburg State Medical University Admission Process can contact us, our experts will help you and provide you with a seat at the university.

Required Documents

10th class mark sheet.

12th class mark sheet.

NEET Scorecard

Original Passport.

Passport size Photographs

HIV Report

COVID-19 Report

Orenburg State Medical University Ranking

The University is listed among the top medical universities in Russia for Indian students to study MBBS. The Orenburg State Medical University Ranking is improved in the last few years and achieved an impressive position among medical universities in the country. Students can check below the current ranking of the University declared by 4ICU.

COUNTRY RANKING

233rd

Orenburg State Medical University Courses

The courses available at Orenburg State Medical University are introduced year by year under the guidelines of the Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation. Below we have provided some detailed information about the year in which different medical departments are founded.

Orenburg State Medical University Courses are available in 5 different programs for Indian students. All the courses are taught by highly skilled professionals in the English language. Candidates just need to apply for entrance and enjoy the best medical education in the university.

Orenburg State Medical University Fee Structure 2024

MBBS program fee is affordable for Indian applicants due to which lots of applicants apply for admission here. We have provided the detailed Orenburg State Medical University Fee Structure below for applicants who wish to study here.

Orenburg State Medical University Fee Structure 2024

Tuition Fees (USD)

Hostel Fees (USD)

Other Charges (USD)

Total (USD)

1st Year

5,700

300

1,000

7,000

2nd to 6th Year

5,700/yr

300/yr

-

30,000

Grand Total

37,000

Orenburg State Medical University Hostel

Every year lots of candidates enrolled here they all get hostel facilities from the university, Orenburg State Medical University Hostel has three buildings opened in 1961, 1964, and 1981 correspondingly. Students get favorable conditions at university hostels, rooms are well furnished, running of cultural events, sports area, etc.

Popular Russian Universities for MBBS Abroad

Frequently Asked Question?

Ques 1: What are the opportunities available after MBBS degree from Orenburg State Medical University?

Ans: Indian candidates have lots of opportunities after completing MBBS degree from Orenburg State Medical University, they can qualify for FMGE Exam and start practicing in India. They can also apply for clinical practice in other foreign countries.

Ques 1: Does the University offer a hostel facility for foreign students?

Ans: Yes, foreign candidates who applied here get Orenburg State Medical University Hostel facility here with lots of accommodations. Hostel staff will take care of students and offer quality food, medical facilities, better security, and facilities to students.

Ques 2: Does Orenburg State Medical University offer best MBBS program?

Ans: Yes, if we talk about the medical education of the Orenburg State Medical University then they have highly skilled medical staff to deliver quality education to medical aspirants. The University has laboratories equipped with the latest equipment to provide better clinical training.

Ques 3: How many Indian students studied here?

Ans: University is open for international candidates, every year more than 3000 international candidates apply for admission here. Among all the foreign students there are more than 500 students available and almost 1500 students are studying at Orenburg State Medical University currently.