Bashkir State Medical University is a traditional university in Ufa, Bashkortostan, Russia, founded in 1932. The university is regarded as one of the major medical scientific centres in the Russian Federation, and it is also regarded as one of Russia's top MBBS universities. This university is popular among Indian students interested in studying MBBS in Russia.

The university has a license from the Russian Federation's Ministry of Education and is one of the greatest medical colleges in russia. It has more than 88 years of experience in delivering specialisation programs in various subjects at Bashkir State Medical University. It is a WHO member as well as an NMC-recognized center of medical and pharmaceutical science in the Bashkortostan Republic.

Why should you attend Bashkir State Medical University?

Best MBBS University Abroad

mbbs fees in russia are affordable

Simple mbbs admission in russia

Over 1,500 students hailing from other countries

More than 85 years of historical context

International Activities on a Continual Basis

Teachers with Exceptional Qualifications

Excellent Educational Technologies

The university has almost 8,000 medical students.

International students can stay in hostels.

Ranking of Bashkir State Medical University:

MCI/ NMC Approved medical colleges in Russia, the university is regarded among the best institutions in the world.

It is placed 301-350 in the QS World University Ranking, and the 4ICU Bashkir State Medical University Ranking has improved in the previous several years, as shown below.

RANKING OF COUNTRIES -63rd

Courses at Bashkir State Medical University:

There are around 120 courses for level training and over 800 advanced training courses at Bashkir University during MBBS in Russia.

Bashkir State Medical University courses for Indian candidates are provided in several medical specialisations after MBBS in Russia.

To protect candidates from new coronavirus infection, the university performs intermediate certification of students utilizing E-Learning and distance learning technologies after MBBS in Russia.

During MBBS in Russia, Bashkir State Medical University provides students with academic, athletic, extracurricular, festival, and travel opportunities.

During MBBS in Russia Students frequently meet with new tutors and gain a practical understanding of academic topics.

Faculty of General Medicine (MBBS)

Faculty of Dentistry

Faculty of Paediatrics

Faculty of Pharmacy

Faculty of Sports Medicine

Faculty of Postgraduate Studies

Faculty of Adaptive Physical Education Culture

Faculty of Clinical Psychology

Faculty for Foreign Students

Higher Education Nursing School

Faculty of Pre-University Education

Admission to Bashkir State Medical University

Bashkir State Medical University is among the best medical colleges in Russia in terms of quality education, practical knowledge, low-budget, multi-diversity, and so on, and so attracts foreign students from Nepal, the United Arab Emirates, Africa, and Pakistan. The university's September intake has a restricted number of seats available for MBBS in Russia.

Bashkir State Medical University Documents Required

10th and 12th mark sheets

Transfer certificate

6 Passport-size photographs

Migration certificate

Passport

Medical insurance and HIV reports by recognized hospital

Bashkir State Medical University Admissions Procedure

STEP 1: Fill out an online application

STEP 2: Obtain an Invitation Letter

STEP 3: Cover Enrollment Fees

STEP 4: Submit a Visa Application

STEP 5: Landing in Russia

STEP 6: Class Start Dates

The University's Achievements

The Bashkir State Medical Clinic is now a teaching facility, a medical institution, and the scientific and medical foundation of the Bashkir State Medical University.

The clinic has a capacity of 650 beds. More than 20,000 patients from various cities in Russia come here for treatment, 3,000 infants are born, and over 8,000 operations are performed. The Bashkir State Medical University clinic's surgeons use cutting-edge technologies to conduct the following surgeries:

Liver and pancreas resections,

Thoracoscopic surgeries,

Reconstructive surgeries for the stomach and small intestine

Brachytherapy,

Stent surgeries of a coronary artery.

Several manipulations and angiographic research on bile ducts, various vessels, uterine artery remobilization in the fibromyoma arc, liver chemoembolization in growths, and procedures used in medical practice. The university clinic employs many advanced transplant surgery and less invasive procedures.

Life as a Student at Bashkir State Medical University

Bashkir State Medical University has five dorms that can house around 2000 students.

The hostel rooms are flat-style, including a kitchen, bathroom and toilet.

The university's hostels are all properly air-conditioned and equipped. The general guideline is that two or three students share one room.

Students have access to the internet on the hostel campus.

They may also consume Indian food on the hostel campus, and the TV operator offers foreign channels in Hindi, Tamil, and other languages.

The hostel's buildings are all under CCTV monitoring and police protection.

The cleaners clean the hostel campus every day and change the bed sheets once a week.

Every year, Bashkir State Medical University hosts many cultural programmes in which students from all over the world participate.

Every year, the Indian Association commemorates Indian festivals such as Baisakhi, Holi, and Diwali, among others.

The Bashkir State Medical University also hosts several tournaments, including international competitions in cricket, table tennis, basketball, badminton, and football.

The Bashkir State Medical University library comprises around 50,000 books, with medical literature accounting for 85% of the total.

The Library also contains four reading halls with a total capacity of 252 students, an electronic catalogue, and a local internet connection that allows simple access to several databases.