IT'S TIME TO GET BACK TO THE GREAT OUTDOORS

THE THIRD SEASON OF "BRICKLEBERRY" PREMIERES ON COMEDY CENTRAL(R) TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16 AT 10:30 P.M. ET/PT

Executive Produced by Daniel Tosh and Creators Waco O'Guin and Roger Black With Voice Talent Including Tosh, Black, Natasha Leggero, Tom Kenny, David Herman, and Jerry Minor

NEW YORK, August 20, 2014 - Everyone's favorite maladjusted park rangers are back for more adventures when "Brickleberry" returns for a third season on Tuesday, September 16 at 10:30 p.m. ET/PT on Comedy Central, following an all-new episode of "Tosh.0." Produced by Fox 21, from Executive Producer Daniel Tosh ("Tosh.0") and series creators, writers and Executive Producers Waco O'Guin and Roger Black (MTV2's "Stankervision"), season three will bring thirteen new episodes of the hit animated series.

In the premiere episode, "Obamascare," President Obama visits Brickleberry to honor "Woody's" 30 years of perfect attendance as a park ranger and true to Brickleberry form, pandemonium ensues. After "Woody" is accidentally shot, "Steve" volunteers to be part of a very unique solution, and "Bobby Possumcods" (O'Guin), angered by Obamacare policies, creates his own backwoods healthcare plan. The President's looming arrival leaves the remaining park rangers on edge, particularly Connie, who claims to have a past with the Commander in Chief.

"Brickleberry" follows the hapless rangers at Brickleberry National Park as they do their worst to keep the park open. Having been through everything from "Steve's" invention of Squabbits to the birth of the anti-Christ, the rangers are back and ready for anything. "Brickleberry" voice talent includes Natasha Leggero as "Ethel," Tom Kenny as "Woody," Dave Herman as "Steve," Jerry Minor as "Denzel," Black as "Connie," and Tosh as "Malloy," the resident bear cub. Ian Friedman and Adam Londy are the Executives in Charge of Production for Comedy Central.

The "Brickleberry" Web site will feature episode previews, highlights and photo galleries of concept artwork from the upcoming episodes. The "Brickleberry" Facebook page has spent the summer giving excited fans an early look at the upcoming new season including episodic artwork created by Bento Box Entertainment, as well as video and photos from the show's appearance at San Diego Comic-Con. The page will be updated daily throughout the season with new artwork, and fans can follow the show on Twitter @brickleberry.

New episodes of "Brickleberry" will be available the day after air in the Comedy Central App, and select episodes from season two are available with no authentication required for viewers that want to catch up on the best of last season. The entire first and second seasons are now available on Hulu Plus.

Available on-air, online and on-the-go, Comedy Central (www.cc.com) is the #1 brand in comedy and is owned by, and is a registered trademark of, Comedy Partners, a wholly-owned unit of Viacom Inc. (NASDAQ: VIAB and VIA). For up-to-the-minute and archival press information and photographs visit Comedy Central's press Web site at press.cc.com and follow us on Twitter @ComedyCentralPR for the latest in breaking news updates, behind-the-scenes information and photos.

Fox 21 is a cable production studio housed within Twentieth Century Fox Television devoted to making creatively ambitious scripted series for the cable television market, as well as unscripted shows for both cable and broadcast networks. Fox 21 currently produces the Emmy(R) and Golden Globe winning "Homeland" starring Claire Danes and Mandy Patinkin, the critically acclaimed smash hit "Sons of Anarchy" (with FX Productions), Brannon Braga and Adam Simon's freshman hit "Salem," Howard Gordon's dramatic thriller "Tyrant," the animated comedy "Brickleberry" from Daniel Tosh, "Witches of East End" starring Julia Ormond and Jenna Dewan Tatum, "Rush" from Jonathan Levine and "Legends" from Howard Gordon and Jonathan Levin. The studio is also developing the drama series "The Bastard Executioner" (with FX productions) from Kurt Sutter and Imagine TV's Brian Grazer.

COME PARTY IN THE BIG EASY

"ADAM DEVINE'S HOUSE PARTY" SEASON TWO PREMIERES ON COMEDY CENTRAL(R) TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9 AT 10:30 P.M. ET/PT

Series Moves to its Regular Timeslot on Thursday, September 11 at 12:30 a.m. ET/PT

Premiere Episode Features Stand-Up Sets from Ian Karmel, Aparna Nancherla, and Brendan Lynch

Episodes Available Day After Air in the Comedy Central App, and in SD and HD on Amazon Instant Video, iTunes, Xbox Video, Google Play, Sony Entertainment Network, and Vudu

NEW YORK, August 20, 2014 - Come on down to New Orleans for the second season of "Adam Devine's House Party," premiering on Tuesday, September 9 at 10:30 p.m., and moving into its permanent timeslot on Thursday, September 11 at 12:30 a.m. ET/PT.

Starring and curated by Devine ("Workaholics"), "House Party" shows what happens when Adam is given a massive budget and free reign to plan an epic party. This season he buys a bar in New Orleans for an incredible, ten-episode bash, complete with party shenanigans and all-new stand-up sets from some of his favorite comic friends. In the premiere, titled "King Cake Baby!" and featuring Ian Karmel, Aparna Nancherla, and Brendan Lynch, Adam suffers the effects of mixing pain meds with absinthe.

Every episode of "House Party" mixes scripted storylines with real stand-up, and features an exciting lineup of comedy favorites: Kurt Braunohler, Nikki Glaser, Erik Griffin and Kristen Schaal, as well as up-and-coming talent: Cy Amundson, Rell Battle, Tone Bell, Billy Bonnell, Mike Bridenstine, Rob Christensen, Kevin Christy, Thomas Dale, Rick Glassman, Sabrina Jalees, Matteo Lane, Randy Liedtke, Monroe Martin, John McKeever, Alingon Mitra, Sam Morril, Joe Pera, Crystian Ramirez, Ben Roy, Nick Rutherford, Mark Serritella, Dave Thomason and Jesus Trejo.

Leading up to the season premiere, both the Comedy Central Stand-Up and "Adam Devine's House Party" Web sites (cc.com/AdamsParty) will offer preview clips from the new season, with the latter featuring bios of the emerging comics featured in the series and a Twitter feed populated with tweets using the hashtag #AdamsParty. The CC:Stand-Up app will also host clips throughout the new season. Fans can follow Adam Devine on Twitter at @ADAMDEVINE, and Comedy Central Stand-Up at @ccstandup.

Each episode of "Adam Devine's House Party" will be made available the day after air in the Comedy Central App, and in SD and HD on Amazon Instant Video, iTunes, Xbox Video, Google Play, Sony Entertainment Network, and Vudu. For fans that want to catch up on last season's shenanigans, season one will be available free of charge in the Comedy Central App from Monday, August 25 to Thursday, September 18.

Produced by Avalon Television, "Adam Devine's House Party" is executive produced by Devine; Scotty Landes; Avalon's Jon Thoday, Richard Allen-Turner, David Martin, and Isaac Horne; and fellow "Workaholic" Kyle Newacheck, who also directs the series. Toni Magon and Christian McLaughlin are the Executives in Charge of Production for Comedy Central.

Comedy Central, the #1 brand in comedy, is the home for the biggest names in stand-up including recent one-hour specials from Daniel Tosh, Kevin Hart, Gabriel Iglesias, Amy Schumer, Anthony Jeselnik, Aziz Ansari, Chris Hardwick, Hannibal Buress, John Mulaney, Pete Holmes, Bill Cosby, Jeff Ross, Nick Kroll, Patton Oswalt, Jim Gaffigan, David Spade, Tracy Morgan, and more.

Comedy Central stand-up series include "The Meltdown with Jonah and Kumail," "Gabriel Iglesias Presents Stand-Up Revolution," "The Half Hour," "Comedy Underground with Dave Attell" and the upcoming "This is Not Happening."

For clips, trailers, and other behind-the-scenes content visit www.cc.com/stand-up or the CC: Stand-Up Facebook page, download the CC: Stand-Up app for iOS devices and Xbox Live, follow @ccstandup on Twitter and listen to Comedy Central Radio, exclusively on SiriusXM.