Please click Display Images or Download Pictures to properly view this newswire

Monday, March 16, 2015

Follow the news on Facebook, Twitter and view newswire archive here

Jump to: Overseas Market - Local Market – Economy – Politics & Legal – Business – Ulaanbaatar – Diplomacy - Social, Environmental & Other

Headlines in Italic are ones modified by Cover Mongolia from original

Overseas Market

Mongolia's Debt to Chalco Stalling $4 Billion Tavan Tolgoi Deal

By Michael Kohn

March 12 (Bloomberg) -- Mongolia's accord with a group planning to develop its largest coking coal deposit for $4 billion is being stalled by the government's $150 million debt to a Chinese state-owned company, Mongolian minister Enkhsaikhan Mendsaikhan said.

"Basically one issue is left," Enkhsaikhan said by phone from Ulaanbaatar on Thursday. "Unfortunately, solving this issue depends not only on us, but also the Chinese side."

Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi, the state-owned company that holds the license to the deposit, was saddled with the debt to Aluminum Corp. of China, or Chalco, in 2011 after Mongolia used a $350 million loan to provide cash handouts to citizens. While Erdenes has repaid a portion of the debt with coal shipments, an interest of more than 10 percent has inflated the amount outstanding.

Tavan Tolgoi, located 270 kilometers (168 miles) north of the Chinese border in the Gobi Desert, is one of several large scale mineral deposits that Mongolia expects will stimulate the economy. The country's pace of economic growth was 7.8 percent last year after three straight years of double-digit expansion.

In December, a group comprising Energy Resources LLC, China Shenhua Energy Co. and Sumitomo Corp. won the permit to develop a portion of the Tavan Tolgoi deposits, beating a bid from U.S. mining company Peabody Energy Corp.

Retain Ownership

Mongolia, which will retain full ownership of the Tavan Tolgoi deposit, has set a requirement that the debt be paid by the consortium. While Aluminum Corp. of China, or Chalco, didn't participate in the bids, the presence of another state-owned Chinese company, Shenhua, in the group has come in the way of talks, Enkhsaikhan said.

"Chalco and Shenhua have to meet each other and try to resolve this problem," he said. "If necessary, I hope the governments will be involved."

Energy Resources Chief Executive Officer Battsengel Gotov is responsible for negotiating on behalf of the consortium, said Enkhsaikhan. Battsengel can't comment because of a media "blackout period," spokeswoman Ariunaa Baldandorj said.

While a target date to conclude negotiations has yet to be set, results are expected "within this month," Enkhsaikhan said.

Another key issue between Mongolia and the consortium is the construction of a railway network to transport coal from the mine to the Chinese border. The railway line will be built on a Build-Own-Operate-Transfer agreement with 51 percent of the shares to be transferred to Mongolia after 30 years.

"We have almost reached an agreement on the railway, but it is still an open issue," said Enkhsaikhan. "Maybe we need to talk a little more, once the Chalco debt issue is resolved."

Erdenes TT has found it difficult to develop the deposit and market the coal on its own. Suspensions have occurred due to disputes with Chinese coal buyers as well as Australia's Macmahon Holdings Ltd., the company's main contractor for the site. Erdenes TT and Macmahon are currently locked in negotiations over payments.

Link to article

Negotiations drawn out over Mongolia's largest coal mine

BY TERRENCE EDWARDS

March 10 (Reuters) - Talks to allow a consortium led by China's Shenhua Energy to take over Mongolia's largest coal mine have yet to be completed, with the project still paying off debts to another Chinese state miner, an official said on Tuesday.

Mongolia is desperate to kick-start a deal expected to be worth as much as $4 billion, with foreign investment into the country falling 74 percent last year, largely because of disputes between companies and the government.

Last year, China's top coal firm Shenhua formed a consortium with Japan's Sumitomo Corp and Energy Resources LLC, a wholly-owned unit of the Mongolian Mining Corp, to take over the management of the Mongolian state-owned firm in charge of the huge Tavan Tolgoi coal deposit.

The mining project in the country's southern Gobi region includes the East and West Tsankhi blocks.

Negotiations with Shenhua were due to be completed before Mongolia's lunar new year in February, but have already missed the deadline, according to Mongolian Minister Mendsaikhan Enkhsaikhan, who oversees Tavan Tolgoi and other giant mining projects.

One challenge is how to handle debts owed to China's Chalco Group by Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi, the Mongolian state-owned firm in charge of the project.

Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi borrowed $350 million from Chalco in 2011 and agreed to pay back the debt in the form of coal deliveries from its East Tsankhi block. It still owes about $150 million to the company, as well as other commitments.

The government used most of the funds it borrowed from Chalco to finance a short-lived social welfare programme that distributed about $15 to every citizen each month.

"After the repayment of outstanding loans to Chalco, Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi still has an obligation to sell 80 percent of its coal (to Chalco) from the East Tsankhi mine for five years," said Enkhbaatar Myagmarulzii, a project manager working under the minister.

Mongolia has set up a working group to lead negotiations with the consortium, which will be entrusted with developing and managing both the East and West Tsankhi blocks, which hold a combined 1.8 billion tons of coking coal.

The Tavan Tolgoi project has attracted the attention of dozens of foreign investment banks and mining conglomerates, but its progress has stalled as a result of financial strains and interference from the government.

Mongolia's previous attempt to find investment for Tavan Tolgoi ended in failure, when its decision to award the project to a consortium consisting of Shenhua, Peabody Energy and a team of Russian and Mongolian firms was criticised by Japanese and South Korean rivals and subsequently annulled.

Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi is also still in dispute with MacMahon Holdings, which was contracted to develop the mine's east block. MacMahon claims it is owed about $30 million.

"It's a complicated issue, but the working group and consortium are seeking to reach a win-win solution now," said Myagmarulzii.

Link to article

Aspire Mining secures 12 month extension to US$5M loan from Noble Group

March 16 (Proactive Investors) Aspire Mining (ASX:AKM) has secured a 12 month extension to a US$5 million loan from Noble Group (SGX:N21) and has also agreed to an option to acquire Noble's 50% interest in the Ekhgoviin Chuluu Joint Venture.

The ECJV currently owns a 60% interest in the Nuurstei Coking Coal Project in northern Mongolia with an option to earn up to 90%.

Aspire has also granted Noble additional marketing rights over coal sold from the Ovoot Coking Coal Project and options over Aspire shares with a two year expiry to enable Noble to maintain a diluted 13.9% interest in Aspire in the event of additional capital being raised within the next 12 months.

Noble will supply fuel, marketing and supply chain services for the Nuurstei Coking Coal Project supplying coal directly to end users.

It will also consider providing working capital funding support for the Nuurstei project subject to the project meeting Noble's internal financing criteria.

Both companies have also committed to accelerating future development of the Nuurstei project.

"This is an important transaction for Aspire as the Nuurstei project presents as a potential early production opportunity while we pursue the development of the Erdenet-Ovoot Railway to open up export opportunities for Ovoot and also add substantial value to the Nuurstei project," managing director David Paull said.

"The Nuurstei Coking Coal Project will benefit greatly from leveraging Noble's established marketing capability and logistics capacity and experience in Mongolia and China."

Noble Term Sheet

Under the binding term sheet, Noble has extended the due date for repayment of the US$5 million loan by 12 months to 15th March 2016.

This will be secured by Aspire's 50% interest in the ECJV.

The loan was provided to assist with pre-development expenditures for the Erdenet-Ovoot railway.

Noble has also granted Aspire a 12 month option expiring on 15 March 2016 to acquire Noble's 50% interest in the ECJV.

The exercise price of the Option comprises a cash component payable by Aspire to Noble of US$1 million plus a capped royalty on future production from Nuurstei.

Adding to the interest, Noble has agreed to supply all of the marketing and logistics services to the Nuurstei project and increase scope of the coal marketing services to be provided to Aspire's wholly owned Ovoot Coking Coal Project to 40% of its production.

Noble supplies multiple commodities direct to customers globally from Mongolia and in particular its supply chain network will enable the company to deliver coking coal from suppliers in Mongolia directly to end customers in China, resulting in greater pricing power.

Nuurstei Coking Coal Project

Aspire and Noble will look to fund a US$2 million exploration and development plan for Nuurstei in 2015 with the aim of establishing a JORC 2012 coal resource sufficient to support permitting and a development decision in early 2016.

Nuurstei project is located within close proximity of a newly completed sealed road that will allow for the transport of Nuurstei coal to existing rail services at Erdenet.

It would also be an early user of rail along the planned Erdenet-Ovoot-Arts Suuri Railway being promoted by Aspire's rail subsidiary Northern Railways LLC.

Through 2015, the ECJV will continue to be active in applying for new exploration licenses prospective for coking coal near existing or planned transport infrastructure in Mongolia.

Noble will retain marketing, logistics and the right to supply fuel for any new projects acquired by the ECJV. It may also consider providing working capital funding support for the Nuurstei project subject to the project meeting Noble's internal financing criteria.

Aspire has also agreed to provide Noble with options to subscribe for additional shares in the company as is required to maintain Noble's current 13.9% shareholding interest in Aspire on a diluted basis in the event that additional capital is raised in the Company during the next 12 months.

Erdenet to Ovoot railway

Aspire and its subsidiary Northern Railways, in which Noble has an option to acquire 10%, continue to make progress in developing a technical, environmental and funding case to support an application for a Rail Concession.

It is expected that the concession for the Erdenet – Ovoot railway will be considered in the next three months.

The 547 kilometre Erdenet-Ovoot rail line is a key requirement to unlock the value of the Ovoot Coking Coal Project and future earnings from mining and production from the project for Aspire.

Analysis

Aspire Mining now has more time to progress development of the key Erdenet-Ovoot railway after securing a 12 month extension to a US$5 million loan from Noble Group.

It will also benefit from Noble leveraging its established marketing capability and logistics capacity for the Nuurstei project and increasing the scope of coal marketing services to the Ovoot project to 40% of its production.

News flow ahead includes progress in discussions with potential funding partners as well as further advances towards securing the Rail Concession.

Link to article

Guildford: Transition from Explorer to Miner Complete

First commercial coal shipment milestone

March 10 -- Guildford Coal Limited (Guildford or the Company) (ASX: GUF) is pleased to advise that the Company has successfully completed the transition of the Company from explorer to miner with the completion of the first commercial shipment of 6,000t of coal to Baotou Iron & Steel (Group) Co. Ltd in China from the Baruun Noyon Uul (BNU) coking coal mine in the South Gobi Mongolia to the Ceke Border station.

Production at the BNU coking coal mine successfully recommenced in late 2014 and this significant milestone marks the final step to commercial production.

The Company has now commenced the next shipment of 20,000 tonne for Jiuquan Iron & Steel (Group) Co Ltd (JISCO) which is part of a 60,000 tonne contract to be completed in March and April 2015.

The Company is also pleased to advise that Sojitz (Hong Kong) Ltd. have made pre-payment on these two initial shipments.

The Company is focused on continuing to build the BNU coking coal brand and locking in long term contracts.

Please contact Tony Mooney, 0423 841 259 for further information.

Link to release

Related:

Guildford Coal: Interim Report

AKM last traded A$0.028 on 6 March

Aspire Mining granted voluntary suspension, to finalise extension of loan payment to Noble

March 10 -- The Directors of Aspire Mining Limited (ASX: AKM) hereby request a voluntary suspension of the Company's securities pending finalisation of a terms sheet on the extension of the due date for payment of the loan owed to Noble Resources International Pte Ltd and revised arrangements in relation to coal interests in Mongolia.

The Directors requested and were granted a trading halt on 6 March 2015.

The Directors expected the announcement of the terms sheet execution to be made to the market prior to the opening of trading on Wednesday 11 March 2015.

However, the announcement is now expected to be made prior to the opening of trading on Monday 16 March 2015.

Link to release

Khan's Genghis experience and other foreign investment nightmares

By Peter Foster

The fate of the Khan project in Mongolia is of more than passing interest to other foreign investors

March 12 (Financial Post) Genghis Khan, the 13th-century Mongol emperor, is reported to have said that "The greatest joy a man can know is to conquer his enemies and drive them before him. To ride their horses and take away their possessions."

Present day Mongolia is still struggling to emerge from the bitter legacy of 70 years of a rule arguably even less enlightened than that of Genghis: the Soviet Union.

One of those legacies – which it has in common with many underdeveloped countries – is the reflexive attempt to grab the possessions not merely of its enemies but its foreign investors, thus damaging its own prospects.

The vast, thinly-populated country is a resource treasure house, which means that foreign investment is the surest route to economic growth, but an immature political system and a commodity price collapse have slowed development. Sitting between Russian history and Chinese resource demand has also proved to be something of a mixed blessing.

Khan Resources is a Toronto-based company that knows something about sitting between Russia and China too. It was attempting to develop a uranium deposit at a site a four-hour drive from the Mongolian capital of Ulaanbataar (Mogi: L). When commodity prices started to rise a decade ago, suddenly both the Russians, who had held the rights to the deposit, and the Mongolian government (both still hold stakes) started adopting Genghis-style tactics.

The Russians attempted a low-ball takeover. Khan brought in a Chinese white knight. The deal fell apart. The Mongolian government cancelled the company's licences.

The Russians evaded a lawsuit from Khan by successfully invoking sovereign immunity (in Ontario, of all places), but last week, after four years of litigation, Khan received a US$100 million award against Mongolia from an international arbitration tribunal under the auspices of the United Nations.

The award is worth around $1.50 a share. Khan has been trading at little more than 50 cents, so the market clearly thinks the company is going to have trouble collecting. However, Mongolia's desperate desire to boost foreign investment may be on Khan's side.

As a stunning indicator of how governance techniques have changed not merely since the thirteenth century but the fall of Berlin Wall, Mongolian cellphone customers recently got a text from their Prime Minister, Saikhanbileg Chimed. He wanted to know if the government should push ahead with more foreign investment in mining, or pursue austerity, slashing public spending. Talk about direct democracy.

Like most polls, this one was obviously loaded, but it certainly laid out genuine alternatives: foreign investment or autarchic poverty. This makes the fate of the Khan judgment of more than passing interest to other foreign investors.

A far larger project – again with a major Canadian element – relates to the development of the vast Oyu Tolgoi gold/copper deposit, which is now being overseen by Anglo-Australian mining giant Rio Tinto. Oyu Tolgoi was discovered in 2001 by Robert Friedland's Vancouver-based Ivanhoe Mines.

Disputes between Ulaanbataar and Rio Tinto have led to a virtual halt of activity. This, combined with the commodity price slump, has led to a reported 88% decline in foreign investment in the past two years, and a sharp drop in Mongolian growth rates.

Collecting arbitration awards against countries is always a complex and fraught business. The most spectacular award in recent history is that of US$50 billion against the government of Vladimir Putin for his government's flagrant expropriation of oil company Yukos. One can imagine how seriously Vlad the expropriator is treating that .

Vancouver miner Gold Reserve won a judgment for US$740 million last year against Venezuela following the expropriation of one of its properties by the regime of the late Hugo Chavez. Venezuela, thanks to the legacy of Mr. Chavez's misrule, was already in desperate straits before the oil price collapse. Now there are fears it may default on its government debt.

Another intriguing case is that being pursued by the Toronto-based Tokmakjian Group against the Castro regime in Cuba after the expropriation of its business there and the imprisonment of its founder and three managers, all of whom have now been released.

The Cuban regime provides a depressing example of how a "stationary bandit," as the great economist Mancur Olson called predatory governments, can expropriate wholesale and get away with it for a very long time.

Although the U.S. Embargo has signally failed to bring down the Castro dictatorship, President Obama's recent announcement of détente is undoubtedly being viewed cynically by the Castro brothers as a means of extending their rule.

The Mongolian Prime Minister's recent text/poll suggests that its government does not want to tread such a path. Khan, meanwhile, is hoping that the government will wish to demonstrate its adherence to the rule of law. If it doesn't, the company is no doubt investigating where it might lay its hands on Mongolian assets overseas.

The Canadian government has adopted a low-profile on this issue, as it usually does in such cases, even if Canada is the second largest investor in Mongolia, and Mongolia is a "priority market" under the Conservatives' Global Markets Action Plan. Ottawa has for some years been working on a Foreign Investment Promotion and Protection Agreement (FIPA) with Ulaanbataar.

Ed Fast, Minister of International Trade, met with Rentsendoo Jigjid, Mongolia's Minister of Mining, "on the margins" of the recent Prospectors and Developers conference in Toronto. One wonders if Mr. Fast suggested – diplomatically, of course — that Mongolia pay up.

Link to article

Khan Resources Director Raffi Babikian Sells 71,000 Shares (KRI)

March 9 (Analyst Ratings Network) Khan Resources (TSE:KRI) Director Raffi Babikian sold 71,000 shares of the company's stock in a transaction dated Monday, March 9th. The stock was sold at an average price of C$0.50, for a total value of C$35,500.00.

Raffi Babikian also recently made the following trade(s):

On Friday, March 6th, Raffi Babikian sold 3,000 shares of Khan Resources stock. The stock was sold at an average price of C$0.52, for a total transaction of C$1,560.00.

Khan Resources Inc (TSE:KRI) is a Canada-based company. It is a mineral exploration and development company engaged in the acquisition, exploration and development of uranium in Mongolia. The Company is engaged in the exploration and development of certain uranium properties that are located in the Dornod district of north eastern Mongolia.

Link to article

MMC Announces Board Meeting to Approve 2014 Results

March 9 -- The board of directors (the "Board") of Mongolian Mining Corporation (HK:975, the "Company", and its subsidiaries, the "Group") hereby announces that a meeting of the Board of the Company will be held on Monday, 23 March 2015 for the purpose of considering and approving the final results of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 and its publication, the recommendation of a final dividend, if any, and transacting any other business.

Link to release

Zacks: Brokerages Expect Turquoise Hill Resources to Post $0.06 EPS

March 12 (Analyst Ratings Network) Shares of Turquoise Hill Resources (NYSE:TRQ) have been given a consensus broker rating score of 2.67 (Hold) from the three brokers that cover the company, Zacks Investment Research reports. One equities research analyst has rated the stock with a sell recommendation, one has given a hold recommendation and one has assigned a strong buy recommendation to the company.

Analysts have set a 12-month consensus price target of $5.25 for the company and are expecting that the company will post $0.06 earnings per share for the current quarter, according to Zacks. Zacks has also assigned Turquoise Hill Resources an industry rank of 167 out of 265 based on the ratings given to related companies.

Shares of Turquoise Hill Resources (NYSE:TRQ) opened at 3.05 on Thursday. Turquoise Hill Resources has a one year low of $2.65 and a one year high of $4.11. The stock has a 50-day moving average of $3. and a 200-day moving average of $3.. The company has a market cap of $6.14 billion and a price-to-earnings ratio of 105.17.

Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd., formerly Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. is an international mineral exploration and development company. The Company's principal mineral resource property is the Oyu Tolgoi Project, located in Mongolia. The Company also has two subsidiaries, through which it holds interests in coal resource properties in Mongolia and molybdenum, rhenium, copper, gold and uranium resource properties in Australia.

To get a free copy of the research report on Turquoise Hill Resources (TRQ), click here. For more information about research offerings from Zacks Investment Research, visit Zacks.com

Link to article

First Call Gives Buy Rating to Turquoise Hill, Short Term Price Target US$5.34

March 11 (Ashburn Daily) Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (NYSE:TRQ): First Call has given a Buy rating to Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd.. The consensus released highlights the optimistic view of the firm regarding the counter.

Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (NYSE:TRQ): The mean estimate for the short term price target for Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (NYSE:TRQ) stands at $5.34 according to 3 Analysts. But, the investors should remain cautious as the stock may face wide vicissitudes from its mean price; the higher price target estimate for the stock has been calculated at $11 while the lower price target estimate is at $2.

In an unimpressive trading session, Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (NYSE:TRQ) slid 2.22% or 0.07 points. The opening transaction was registered at $3.1, during the intraday the shares touched the lowest point at $3.07 and the rally climaxed at $3.18. The closing trade was executed at $3.08 and the daily volume had increased to 1,836,998 shares. The previous close of the stock is $3.15. The 52-week high of the stock is $4.17 while the 52-week low is $2.65. According to the latest information available from the exchange, the company has a market cap of $6,198 million and approximately 2,012,299,000 shares are in outstanding.

Link to article

1878 jumped +18.47% to close at HK$6.99, intraday high HK$8.28

SouthGobi Not Aware of Any Reasons for Unusual Price and Trading Volume Movements

This announcement is made at the request of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.

March 6 -- The board of directors (the "Board") of SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (TSX: SGQ, HK: 1878) (the "Company") has noted the increases in the price and trading volume of the shares of the Company today. Having made such enquiry with respect to the Company as is reasonable in the circumstances, save as disclosed in the announcements of the Company, the Board confirms that it is not aware of any reasons for these price and volume movements or of any information which must be announced to avoid a false market in the Company's securities or of any inside information that needs to be disclosed under Part XIVA of the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Chapter 571 of the Laws of Hong Kong).

This announcement is made by the order of the Company. The Board collectively and individually accepts responsibility for the accuracy of this announcement.

Shareholders of the Company and potential investors are advised to exercise caution in dealing in the securities of the Company.

Link to release

254 jumped 13.68% to close at HK$0.216, intraday high HK$0.29

NUR Not Aware of Any Reasons for Unusual Price and Trading Volume Movements

This announcement is made at the request of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.

March 6 -- The board (the "Board") of directors (the "Directors") of National United Resources Holdings Limited (HK: 254, the "Company") has noted the recent increases in the price and trading volume of the shares of the Company. Having made such enquiry with respect to the Company as is reasonable in the circumstances, save as the announcement of the Company dated 4 March 2015 in relation to a profit warning, the Board confirms that it is not aware of any reasons for these price and volume movements or of any information which must be announced to avoid a false market in the Company's securities or of any inside information that needs to be disclosed under Part XIVA of the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Chapter 571 of the Laws of Hong Kong).

This announcement is made by the order of the Company. The Board collectively and individually accepts responsibility for the accuracy of this announcement.

Shareholders of the Company and potential investors are advised to exercise caution in dealing in the securities of the Company

Link to release

Mongolia Growth Group Ltd. to Present at NYSSA Mongolia Conference

Toronto, Ontario, March 9 (FSCwire) - Mongolia Growth Group Ltd. (YAK - TSXV and MNGGF - USA) ("MGG") or ("the Company") a commercial real estate investment and development company participating in the dynamic growth of the Mongolian economy is pleased to announce that it has been invited to present at the 3rd Annual "Investing in Mongolia" conference hosted by The New York Society of Security Analysts (NYSSA) on April 9, 2015.

Chairman and CEO Harris Kupperman will be speaking on behalf of MGG at the event.

The mission of the New York Society of Security Analysts is to serve the needs of all members and investment professionals and to educate the investing public.

For more information on the conference, please visit http://www.nyssa.org/programs/mastercalendar/ctl/viewdetail/mid/512/itemid/2284/d/20150409.aspx

Link to release

XAM lasted traded A$0.08 Thursday

Xanadu: Annual Report Chairman's Letter

March 13 -- Xanadu Mines Ltd (ASX: XAM – "Xanadu") has lodged its Full Year Statutory Accounts for 31 December 2014. The Chairman's Letter is attached to this announcement; highlights include:

–this is a shortened financial year as Xanadu transitions to a 31 December year end;

–the primary focus of the period was adding value to the Kharmagtai copper-gold project with around 12,500 metres of diamond drilling completed in the six months to late November 2014;

–the exploration team has made outstanding progress extending the mineralisation around the three central outcropping prospects at Kharmagtai and there are many indications that we are defining a major copper-gold system;

–the drilling results significantly expanded the project's scale, increase its development potential and demonstrate that the licence area remains significantly under explored;

–the Oyut Ulaan copper-gold project has several common characteristics with the Kharmagtai project. Xanadu will continue exploration at Oyut Ulaan over 2015, potentially positioning Xanadu with two of the most exciting emerging copper exploration projects in North Asia;

–Xanadu raised approximately $15.3 million of new equity funds through a private placement approved by shareholders at the November AGM and a subsequent rights issue which recently closed placing Xanadu in a strong position to add value through exploration activities;

–the Kharmagtai deferred consideration has been reduced from US$10.0 million to around US$3.8 million including the 5 March 2015 subscription funds and the repayment date has been extended to 31 July 2016; and

–the year end cash balance was $7.5 million.

Xanadu has an exciting and challenging year ahead of it in 2015. The Company is starting in a strong position and has the capacity to add value to its Kharmagtai and Oyut Ulaan copper-gold projects through exploration.

Link to release

Related:

Interim Report

Annual Financial Report

VKA last traded A$0.017 Feb 25

Viking Mines: Interim Report

March 6, Viking Mines Ltd. (ASX:VKA) --

…

Directors' Report

Your directors present their report on the consolidated entity (referred to hereafter as the Group) consisting of Viking Mines Limited ("Viking" or "the Company") and the entities it controlled at the end of, or during, the half year ended 31 December 2014. In order to comply with the Corporations Act 2001 the directors report as follows:

DIRECTORS

The following persons were directors of Viking during the whole of the period and up to the date of this report:

John W (Jack) Gardner – Executive Chairman

Peter McMickan – Executive Director

Raymond Whitten was appointed a non-executive director of the Company on 29 October 2014.

Trygve Kroepelien was a non-executive director of the Company until his resignation on 29 October 2014.

OPERATIONS

During the half year Viking completed a successful takeover of Auminco Mines Limited (Auminco) and completed its first drilling program on the Berkh Uul coal project in Mongolia.

HIGHLIGHTS

·Successful completion of 100% acquisition of Auminco, adding two advanced Mongolian coal projects to the Company's portfolio.

·Four Memoranda of Understanding (MOU's) now signed with Mongolian government entities for potential coal supply from the Berkh Uul coal project.

·First drilling program at Berkh Uul confirms both the thickness and quality of the coal seams as indicated in historic drilling, and

·Berkh Uul drilling has extended the deposit 1.5km to the south of previous drilling. Coal intersected at shallow depths of less than 80 metres in 17 of the 18 holes drilled.

In addition the Company advanced the Akoase gold project by undertaking a soil sampling program on the Akoase West tenement, with results outlining two parallel gold anomalies of 2.5 km and 1.4 km strike length, and >50ppb Au. These anomalies represent excellent drill targets for future exploration.

…

Link to report

Eumeralla: Interim Report

March 12, Eumeralla Resources Ltd. (ASX:EUM) --

DIRECTORS' REPORT

Your directors submit the financial report of the Group for the half-year ended 31 December 2014. In order to comply with the provisions of the Corporations Act 2001, the directors report as follows:

Directors

…

Review of Operations

Myanmar

…

Mongolia

In July 2014 the Company engaged Lunda LLC (Lunda) to perform an IP/Res Gradient Survey. Lunda have performed the IP/Res Gradient Survey and are in the process of preparing a report to be submitted to the Mineral Resources Authority (MRAM) of Mongolia.

Corporate

On 1 October 2014 Mr David Wheeler was appointed as a non-Executive Director.

…

Link to full report

Parmelia Resources: Interim Report

March 12, Parmelia Resources Ltd. (ASX:PML) --

…

DIRECTORS' REPORT

…

During the period the entirety of the Mongolian project was impaired, the amount of $782,946 is recognised in the profit and loss as part of the total of $807,231 recognised during the period. The Directors' assessment of the carrying amount for the Group's exploration properties was after consideration of prevailing market conditions; previous expenditure for exploration work carried out on the tenements; and the potential for mineralisation based on the Group's independent geological reports.

The ultimate value of these assets is dependent upon recoupment by commercial development or the sale of the whole or part of the Group's interests in these exploration properties for an amount at least equal to the carrying value. There may exist on the Group's exploration properties, areas subject to claim under Native Title or containing sacred sites or sites of significance to Aboriginal people.

…

Link to full report

Newera Resources: Interim Report

March 12, Newera Resources Ltd. (ASX:NRU) --

…

DIRECTORS' REPORT

…

Review of Operations

Mongolia

On 5 December 2014, the Company announced that following a review of recent exploration within the Ulaan Tolgoi project and armed with the knowledge that despite the identification of interpreted potentially coal bearing sub-basins and the more recent interpretation that potential mineral bearing intrusions may exist below significant cover in the northern sector of the licence, Newera acknowledged that any future exploration within the Ulaan Tolgoi licence at this point, would remain high risk green fields exploration.

In addition, in order to maintain the Ulaan Tolgoi Joint Venture, Newera was facing a significant annual Statutory Licence fee immediately payable to the Mongolian Department and a long period of inactivity over the harsh Mongolian winter.

To that end, Newera advised that it had issued a formal letter of notice to its Ulaan Tolgoi Joint Venture partner, advising that Newera has withdrawn from the Ulaan Tolgoi Joint Venture, effective immediately.

…

Link to full report

Modun Resources: Interim Report

March 11, Modun Resources Ltd. (ASX:MOU) --

…

DIRECTORS' REPORT

…

Review of Operations

Since June 2011, Modun has been focusing on the exploration and development of the Nuurst Thermal Coal Project (Nuurst Project) in Mongolia. Despite the success the Company has achieved in generating a 478 million tonne 2004 JORC Compliant Coal Mineral Resource at the Nuurst Project (326 million tonnes Measured, 104 million tonnes Indicated, 48 million tonnes Inferred) and culminating in the granting a mining licence in July 2013, Modun has not been able to convert this asset into growth in the Company's share price nor has it been able to secure the finance to bring the project into production.

As a consequence, the Company has been considering other opportunities available to it to bring value to its Shareholders. The Company has been investigating the opportunity to diversify into other industries including the technology sector via the acquisition of a technology business. The Company has been advised by ASX that, if it does pursue this strategy, then it will most likely need to re-comply with Chapters 1&2 of the Listing Rules. Shareholder approval will be required to sell the Nuurst Project.

During the period, Modun appointed new members to the board to assist the Company implement its new strategy. On 1 September 2014, Mike Hill, Andrew Gray and Philip Kapp were appointed as Directors. This provides Modun with more than 30 years private equity investment experience that will be used to accelerate the transformation of Modun into a high growth and strong cash-flow generating business. The Directors will continue to assess opportunities across the range of the alternative strategies listed above.

On 24 November 2014, the Company entered into a highly conditional agreement to sell 100% of the issued share capital of its subsidiary, Modun Resources LLC (Modun LLC), which owns 100% of the Nuurst Project.

The consideration for the sale is US$8m payable as to US$1,000,000 in cash and US$7,000,000 in deferred (royalty) payments, paid on the basis of $0.50 per tonne for the first 14 millions tonnes of coal extracted and sold by the purchaser.

The Agreement is subject to a number of conditions including:

a)The purchaser completing, to its satisfaction, legal, accounting and technical due diligence by 30 April 2015;

b)The granting of any necessary consents, approvals, exemptions, authorisations and regulatory approvals including:

·the approval of Modun shareholders

·the consent from the Government of Mongolia's Mineral Resources Authority of Mongolia regarding the transaction (if required by Mongolian Law).

The due diligence process by the purchaser remains ongoing at the date of this report.

Events Occurring After the Balance Date

On 5 February 2015, the Company agreed to extend the exclusive due diligence period for the prospective purchaser of Modun LLC for a further 8 weeks in order to finalise information requirements and advance contractual negotiations. The revised expiry date for the exclusive period is 30 April 2015.

There have been no other events subsequent to the balance date, which would have a material effect on the Group's financial statements.

…

Link to full report

Related:

Modun: Resignation of Neil Hackett as Non-Executive Director – MOU, March 11

Draig Resources: Interim Report

March 10, Draig Resources Ltd. (ASX:DRG) --

…

DIRECTORS' REPORT

…

RESULTS AND REVIEW OF ACTIVITIES

Draig is involved in the exploration for coal within two exploration licences that are located in Mongolia.

The Company's interest is held by a controlled entity, BDBL LLC ("BDBL"). BDBL is a participant in the Mongolian Coal Joint Venture (No.1) ("MCJV") with two other companies; Khan Mountain Pty Ltd ("KM") and Khan Mountain 2 Pty Ltd ("KM2"). KM and KM2 are wholly owned subsidiaries of Trinity Mongolia Pty Ltd ("Trinity"). BDBL has a 75% interest in the MCJV. KM has a 10% interest, which is free carried, and KM2 has a 15% interest in the MCJV. The Company has a 28% interest in Trinity.

The Company's investment in coal exploration in Mongolia has not progressed as positively as was originally planned. Consequently, prospective purchasers of these assets are actively being sought whilst the assets are being maintained.

The priority for the Company is now the acquisition of a suitable alternate opportunity. The main focus has been in resources, although some opportunities outside this sector have been reviewed. There are several potential opportunities which the Company is currently evaluating.

The Board continued to focus on minimising costs and conserving the Company's cash.

Administrative expenditure for the half year ended 31 December 2014 was $0.3m compared to $0.5m for the half year ended 31 December 2013.

Total comprehensive loss for the period was $0.2m (2013: $3.4m).

The Group was debt free and held cash and term deposit investments of $2.1m at the end of the reporting period.

The view of the Directors is that the Company and the Group are operating as a going concern.

SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

There has not arisen in the interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely, in the opinion of the Directors of the Company, to affect significantly the operations of the Group, the results of those operations, or the state of affairs of the Group, in future financial years.

…

Link to full report

GMM: Interim Report

March 13, General Mining Corp. Ltd. (ASX:GMM) --

…

REVIEW OF OPERATIONS

…

Mongolia

No activities were carried out in Mongolia and the shutdown of the Mongolian subsidiary continued.

…

Link to report

Denison Mines Corp. Reports 2014 Results

TORONTO, ONTARIO--(Marketwired - March 5, 2015) - Denison Mines Corp. ("Denison" or the "Company") (TSX:DML)(NYSE MKT:DNN) today reported its results for the three months and year ended December 31, 2014. All amounts in this release are in U.S. dollars unless otherwise stated.

…

In Mongolia, exploration expenditures on the Gurvan Saihan joint venture ("GSJV") properties totaled $394,000 in 2014, compared to $550,000 in 2013. Expenditures during the year primarily relate to annual license payments required to maintain the GSJV properties in good standing, while the Company continues to explore strategic alternatives regarding its ownership interest in the GSJV. In 2013, the Company focused on completing field programs and studies necessary to convert the Company's exploration licences to mining licences.

…

In Mongolia, the Company continues its efforts to pursue strategic alternatives for its 85% interest in the GSJV. Further guidance regarding the Company's interest in the GSJV will be provided in the first half of 2015. The budget for Mongolia is estimated to be $725,000 for 2015.

…

Link to release

Centerra Gold Announces Retirement of President and Chief Executive Officer Ian Atkinson

TORONTO, ON--(Marketwired - March 12, 2015) - Centerra Gold Inc. (TSX: CG) announced today that Ian Atkinson, its President and Chief Executive Officer, has informed the Board of Directors of his intention to retire by year-end. October, 2015 will mark 10 years of service by Ian at Centerra as Vice President Exploration, Senior Vice President of Global Exploration, and as President & Chief Executive Officer and a Director. The Board has retained STM Associates to assist in a search, considering internal and external candidates.

Link to release

Asia Frontier Capital Newsletter – Country Snapshot: Mongolia

March 13 (via EmergingMarkets.me) Although it is the least densely populated country in the world, with less than 3 million people living in a land area of 1.5 million km2, Mongolia has the potential to see the greatest growth of any country within the AFC Asia Frontier Universe. Mongolia's economy is traditionally based on herding and agriculture, but is expanding aggressively due to foreign investments in large mining projects that capitalize on the country's vast deposits of coal, copper, gold, tungsten, tin, nickel, zinc, silver, and iron. Real GDP is expected to expand by 8.4% in 2015 and this should accelerate sharply if the government can resolve an ongoing dispute with a large foreign mining company. Mongolia's growth is also steered by high levels of agricultural production and the spill-over from China's epic growth.

Stock Market:

The Mongolian Stock Exchange (MSE), located in Ulan Bator, is the country's sole stock exchange. The history of MSE's securities market began between 1992-1995 when 475 state owned entities were successfully privatized through MSE distributing 96.1 million shares worth 8.2 billion MNT (7.0 million USD) to the citizens of Mongolia within the framework of implementing "Privatization Policy" of the Mongolian Government during the transitional period of a central planned economy to a market economy in Mongolia. Secondary market trade began on August 28, 1995 auctioning 16,000 shares of three companies that valued 15,000 USD.

The MSE now lists 212 companies and has a market capitalization of USD 700 million as of February 2015.

Mongolian Stock Exchange website: www.mse.mn

Country snapshots for all of AFC's markets can be found on our website at www.asiafrontiercapital.com

AFC Country Report: Mongolia

The key topic that will continue to dictate investor confidence in Mongolia is the issue of Oyu Tolgoi, the USD 6 billion copper and gold mine that has become the focal point of a well-publicized dispute between Turquoise Hill Resources (a subsidiary of mining giant Rio Tinto), which owns 66% of the mine, and the Mongolian government, which owns 34% of the project. Hailed as a transformational discovery that would account for more than one-third of Mongolia's GDP upon completion, the project has become a litmus test for foreign investment in the country, with many outside observers expressing worry over the ongoing disagreements between the two joint venture partners regarding profit sharing and financing.

Mongolia's new Prime Minister Chimed Saikhanbelig (Mogi: I suggest the authors to get names of important folks right first) has tried to revive foreign investment in the wake of the Oyu Tolgoi dispute and several other incidents involving backtracking on mining licenses and changing foreign investment laws. He has proposed an amendment to the minerals law to allow the government to swap its ownership stake in the Oyu Tolgoi project in exchange for future royalty payments from mine developers (Mogi: this clause is not retroactive, therefore not applicable to OT). The amendment would mean that the Government of Mongolia would be off the hook for providing a significant amount of the USD 5 billion necessary for the construction costs of Phase Two of Oyu Tolgoi, which would help develop the underground portion of the mine, which contains 80% of the deposit's total value. Rio Tinto, however, does not want to increase its ownership percentage in the project by buying the Government's stake, especially in light of the fact that global commodity prices are down – in January, copper fell to its lowest price since the 2008 global financial crisis.

One potential glimpse of hope for foreign investors watching the Mongolia situation came in early March when an international tribunal ordered the Government of Mongolia to pay USD 100 million to Canada-based Khan Resources in compensation for cancelling the company's uranium mining licenses granted in 2009. Khan's shares jumped +28% on the news, and the court ruling is hopefully a signal of a move towards better enforcement of laws, contracts, and agreements in the country between the government and foreign companies. (Mogi: this I agree with)

More good news came when the government announced its plan to renew the granting of mineral exploration licenses commencing on 26th January 2015 after a more than 5 year hiatus. There may also be signs of hope for continued political reform as the President of Mongolia also pardoned three foreign employees of coal miner SouthGobi Resources Ltd who had been sentenced to over 5 years in prison for tax evasion. The foreigners had been banned from leaving Mongolia, and the case was plagued by murky details and translation problems, threatening to further derail investor sentiment in the country.

Forward progress by the government is vital to coax back foreign investment, as the country's Central Bank announced in August of last year that FDI entering Mongolia from January to July 2014 had fallen 70% year-on-year to a total of USD 873 million, following a 43% drop during the same period in 2013. Slumping foreign investment has been the main catalyst for Mongolia's woes, but dipping commodity prices and a weakened currency have also contributed to the country's slide.

Byambasaikhan Bayanjargal, the CEO of Erdenes Mongol, the umbrella company that holds the Mongolian government's stakes in various mining projects in the country, believes he can transform the outlook for mining projects and foreign investment in the country. Bayanjargal, who previously worked for the Asian Development Bank in project finance and helped manage a USD 120 million wind farm project in the country, wants to raise foreign capital and sell shares in the company to create a "Mongolian Temasek" modeled after the highly-successful Temasek Holdings investment company in Singapore that manages about USD 164 billion on behalf of the Singaporean government.

…

AFC Travel Report: Mongolia

…

Link to report

Ex-UBS Banker to Wealthy Goes Solo, to Focus on East Africa, Mongolia, Vietnam

March 11 (Bloomberg) -- Albert Momdjian quit his senior job at UBS Group AG last year to start an investment firm in Dubai. After more than 20 years in banking, he decided it was time to put his own money on the line.

"The industry has changed significantly over the years and is no longer what it used to be," Momdjian, 44, said at the offices of SOKOTRA Capital, his firm in the Dubai International Financial Center. "It is extremely regulated, less lucrative financially, and certainly more stressful and less fun."

Like other veteran bankers going solo, he was lured by a change in attitudes in the Middle East about how best to manage large family fortunes. In the years leading up to the 2008 financial crisis, many family offices -- the wealth management units advising Middle Eastern billionaires and their relatives - - enlisted private equity firms and hedge funds to place their money, often giving them free rein. When the crisis erupted, family offices found themselves holding illiquid assets that were bleeding value but which they couldn't unload.

"Large institutions and family offices in the region as well as globally, are looking to be more actively involved in their investments," Momdjian said. "The days of blind pool investing through private equity funds is nearing its end."

Rare Deals

Momdjian, formerly the head of UBS's business with the Swiss bank's wealthiest clients in the Middle East and Africa, is inviting family offices and institutions to invest in deals with him in fast-growing, developing markets. By putting up his own money and not requiring lock-in periods, he is seeking to attract investors who want flexibility and assurances they are backing credible ventures.

SOKOTRA is named after the island off Yemen known for its rare flora and fauna, a reference to his determination to find unique investment opportunities. It will initially focus on East Africa and emerging Asia, mainly Mongolia and Vietnam, because those countries offer an avenue into neighboring China, he said.

"Frontier markets still offer tremendous growth prospects for investors who understand them well," Momdjian said. "Our aim is to complete at least one or two investments by the end of the year."

Boutique Investment

SOKOTRA is scouting for deals across industries ranging from agriculture and manufacturing to retail. Momdjian said he is interested in investments in which the firm would have a significant minority stake. He declined to discuss the firm's finances in detail but said he has enough to cover operating costs for three years in addition to personal funds.

…

Link to full article

Back to top

Local Market

Bishrelt's Undarmaa Speculated to Replace MSE Acting CEO

March 12 (Mongolian Economy) There is a rumor that Bishrelt Group CEO B.Undarmaa will step into the role of Mongolian Stock Exchange CEO, replacing acting chief D.Angar.

This issue was discussed during Mongolian Stock Exchange's (MSE) board of directors meeting on 6 March. By law, the MSE board of directors has the privilege to elect or replace the CEO. The Ministry of Finance, which has the responsibility of implementing the MSE's shareholder rights, submitted the executive appointment proposal. A decision has yet to be made.

Who's who?

There's speculation that B.Undarmaa's appointment to the CEO of MSE would create a conflict of interests, because she owns a certain amount of stock in two companies and operates a broker-dealer company under her son's name.

B.Undarmaa graduated from the Moscow Institute of Management and majored in engineering economics. She has a PhD in Economics. In 2012, she was appointed as Deputy Minister of Education. Currently, she is CEO of Bishrelt Group, head of the Mongolian Family Development Center, on the board of directors of the Mongolian Social Democratic Women's Association, and has been a member of Mongolian People's Party since 2007; in 2008, she was elected as the City Council's Chairman of the Standing Committee on Social Policy.

Acting CEO of the MSE D.Angar entered the office only a half year ago. He majored in finance from the University of Central Arkansas, and holds a master's degree in international finance and accounting from the University of Liverpool. Previously, he was the Head of Debt Management Department of the Ministry of Finance, and trade and economic advisor for the Mongolian Embassy in the UK from 2011 to 2014.

After his appointment as CEO of MSE, he mentioned in an interview with www.mongolianeconomy.mn: "Reforms are being done. Works to improve regulation and operations to meet international standards will be conducted. It's as if we're still using wooden wheels, while it's confirmed that rubber tire run faster."

During his tenure, he managed to reform and revitalise the MSE. Over the past three years the MSE worked with no profit; but in each of the last two months, the MSE has generated a profit MNT 50 million.

Link to article

MSE Weekly Active Players Report

March 13 (MSE) Mongolian Stock Exchange organized 5 securities trading sessions and made transaction of MNT 17,703,375,042.00 between 9 March 2015 and 13 March 2015.

Share trading:

106,893 shares of 56 joint stock companies worth of MNT 369,174,542.00 were traded.

MOST ACTIVILY TRADED SECURITIES

MOST ACTIVE BROKERAGE COMPANIES

Government retail bonds trading:

173,332 Government retail bonds worth of MNT 17,333,200,000.00 traded through one trading session.

MOST ACTIVE BROKERAGE COMPANIES IN GOVERNMENT SECURITIES TRADING

As of 13 March 2015, market capitalization was MNT 1,378,547,310,649.08 which indicated increase of 2.36%, and MSE ALL index increased 0.65% from previous week.

Link to report

MSE Primary Offer: ₮83.3 Billion 28-Week T-Bills at 7.9% Discount, 16% Yield

March 11 (MSE) --

1.The issuer's name: Mongolian Ministry of Finance

2.The purpose of the issuance of bond: Fund management of State treasure

3.Offering scope of securities: Offering to the public

4.Type of securities: Government securities

5.Face value: MNT 100,000

6.Discounted price: MNT 92,088.00

7.Total amounts issued: 833,395 Units

8.Securities performance:

Government Securities name

Amount /units/

Value /billion MNT/

Maturity /week/

Form of Interest payment*

Interest rate (percent)

Starting date of the order

Closing date of the trading

ЗГЭБ-Б-12-293

833,395

83.3

28

Discounted

16.00%

2015.03.11

2015.03.17

9.Rate of interest: interest rate of the Government Securities, which will be issued weekly, will be based on auction results of Central Bank basis State Government Securities weighted average interest rate. If the Central Bank's weekly trading cancelled, the interest rate will be set based on the previous trading of Government Securities weighted average interest rate.

10.Order deadline: The Mongolian Stock Exchange will take orders 6 days and the trading will close on the 6th day at 14.00 PM and information on total orders will be delivered to the securities issuer.

11.Trading period: Total registered orders distribution of MSE trading system will be determined based on the Ministry of Finance votes.

Link to release

₮17.3 Billion 12-Week T-Bills Issued on MSE

March 10 (MSE) On 10 March 2015, 12 weeks Government retail bonds worth MNT17,333,200,000.00 with 15.54% annual interest rate traded successfully on primary market at Mongolian Stock Exchange.

Bellow member brokerage companies participated in the bond trading as follows:

Link to release

Mogi: looks like Ard found a vehicle for a reverse-listing

Ard Financial Group Launches Bid for Jinst Uvs JSC for No Lower than ₮975.28 a Share

March 12 (MSE) In accordance with the Articles No 22.1.1, 22.4 of "Securities Law of Mongolia", the issuer who wants to buy controlling packet of shares, could organize a block trading on MSE after he or she declares it to FRC and public, and send notification to the MSE.

Therefore, MSE is informing that "Ard Financial Group" LLC wants to buy 45,028 shares or 84.6 percent of "Jinst Uvs" JSC, made an offer to other shareholders with not lower than MNT975.28 per share.

Link to release

MSE Reinstates National Securities' Trading License

March 6 (MSE) According to the decree No.:42 of CEO of Mongolian Stock Exchange dated on 10 February 2015 , there were some member companies temporary halted from trading due to failed to follow duties that stated on the agreement.

Accordance with the decree No.: 72 of CEO of MSE dated on 05 March 2015, the trading license of "National Securities" LLC has been reinstated due to executed duties.

Link to release

AGMs in March-April

BDSec:

Link to BDSec

Back to top

Economy

Early morning bank rates: TDB (Buy ₮1,980 Sell ₮1,990), Khan (Buy ₮1,980 Sell ₮1,991), Golomt (Buy ₮1,980 Sell ₮1,991), XacBank (Buy ₮1,981 Sell ₮1,991), State Bank (Buy ₮1,976 Sell ₮1,991)

BoM MNT Rates: Friday, March 13 Close

3/13

3/12

3/11

3/10

3/9

3/6

3/5

3/4

3/3

3/2

USD

1,987.43

1,988.19

1,988.54

1,987.98

1,986.45

1,985.51

1,984.44

1,979.20

1,977.95

1,974.25

EUR

2,109.26

2,115.43

2,124.95

2,147.91

2,157.48

2,188.93

2,193.20

2,212.25

2,212.83

2,206.62

CNY

317.53

317.51

317.57

317.51

317.11

316.98

316.64

315.56

315.25

314.70

GBP

2,956.90

2,984.07

2,999.91

2,999.46

2,992.88

3,024.92

3,025.87

3,041.24

3,039.81

3,039.95

RUB

32.48

32.58

31.69

32.81

32.89

33.14

32.06

32.03

31.72

31.69

MNT vs USD, CNY in last 1 year:

Link to rates

BoM FX auction: USD ask, bid, CNY ask offers declined, accepts $5m MNT, $35 USD ask offers

March 12 (Bank of Mongolia) On the Foreign Exchange Auction held on March 12th, 2015 the BOM has received bid offers of USD 0.4 million in a rate between MNT 1988.91-1989.0, selling bid offer of USD 2.0 million MNT 1990.0 and CNY 4.0 million in a rate of MNT 317.73-317.82 from local commercial banks. BOM has not accepted the offer.

On March 12th, 2015, The BOM has received MNT Swap agreement bid offer in equivalent to USD 5.0 and USD Swap agreement bid offer of USD 35.0 million from local commercial banks and accepted the offer.

See also:

·FX Auction Statistics

Link to release

BoM FX auction: US$20.5m sold at ₮1,986.45, CNY47m at ₮317.26, accepts $16.3m MNT, $10m USD swap offers

March 10 (Bank of Mongolia) On the Foreign Exchange Auction held on March 10th, 2015 the BOM has received bid offers of USD 20.5 million in a rate between MNT 1986.45-1990.50 and CNY 86.0 million in a rate of MNT 316.81-317.80 from local commercial banks. BOM has sold USD 20.5 million in a rate of 1986.45 and CNY 47.0 million with rate of 317.26.

On March 10th, 2015, The BOM has received MNT Swap agreement bid offer in equivalent to USD 16.3 and USD Swap agreement bid offer of USD 10.0 million from local commercial banks and accepted the offer.

See also:

·FX Auction Statistics

Link to release

Mongolia's 2014 Inbound FDI Drops 76% to $507.6m: Central Bank

By Michael Kohn

March 6 (Bloomberg) -- Bank of Mongolia revises inbound FDI for 2014 to $507.6m, central bank says in statement on website.

* NOTE: Link to statement: http://alturl.com/vufca

* Revised data show:

* Inbound FDI was $2.14b in 2013, $4.45b in 2012: statement

* 2014 current-account balance registered $981.7m deficit, shrinking 69% y/y: statement

* 2014 capital and financial account balance registered $771.5m surplus, down 46% y/y: statement

* 2014 capital and financial account balance registered $771.5m surplus, down 46% y/y:

(BFW)

Mongolia Sees $88m FDI Withdrawal in Jan.: Govt

By Michael Kohn

March 11 (Bloomberg) -- Foreign direct investment in Jan. into Mongolia was -$88.1m, according to preliminary data released by central bank today.

* Total inbound FDI in 2014 was $507.6m vs $2.1b in 2013

* Current account surplus at end-Jan. was $116.7m vs $122.2m deficit yr ago

* Capital and financial account was a deficit of $278.8m, compared to surplus of $216m in Jan. 2014

(BFW)

Mongolia's International Investment Position - Q4, 2014

March 13 (Bank of Mongolia) --

Link to full report

Mongolia Jan.-Feb. Trade Surplus Is $290.9m: Statistics Office

By Michael Kohn

March 11 (Bloomberg) -- Trade surplus of $290.9m in the first two months of 2015 compares to $19.5m deficit a yr earlier, the National Statistical Office says today in statement.

* Exports rise 26.7% y/y to $753.2m in Jan.-Feb.

* Imports fell 24.7% y/y to $462.4m in Jan.-Feb.

* Feb. CPI increased 0.4% m/m, 9.3% y/y, the slowest increase since July 2013

* M2 money supply reached 10.3t tugrik at the end of Feb., a 0.6% decrease m/m and a 4.1% increase y/y

* Loans outstanding were 12.2t tugrik at the end of Feb., a 9.2% increase y/y

* Principal in arrears reached 397.6b tugrik at the end of Feb., a 25.2% increase m/m (Mogi: NPLs +1.5% MoM, +11.6% YoY to ₮667.2 billion)

* Industrial production index at the end of February increased 12.5% y/y

* Total expenditure and net lending of the General Government Budget reached 930.9b tugrik, a 16.1% increase y/y in Jan.-Feb.

(BFW)

Mongolia Jan.-Feb. Copper Exports Rise 68% Y/y: Govt

By Michael Kohn

March 11 (Bloomberg) -- Mongolia exported 205,800 tons of copper concentrate in the first two months of 2015 vs. 122,600 tons yr ago, the National Statistics Office reported on its website today.

* Revenue from copper concentrate exports rose to $363.3m in first two months vs. $186.5m yr ago

* Mongolia exported 2.5t of gold in the first two months compared to 1.5t yr ago; value rises to $98m vs $63m

* Crude oil exports rise to 1.2m barrels from 1m barrels yr ago; value falls to $58.7m vs. 97.2m yr ago

* Volume of coal exports fell to 1.7m tons in first two months compared to 2.1m yr ago

* Revenue from coal exports down 40% to $65.5m from $108.6m yr

* NOTE: Coal export revenue was $122.9 in first two months of 2013 and $187.8m in first two months of 2012

* China purchased took 79% of Mongolia's total exports, buying $596m of $753m in shipments

(BFW)

Budget Cuts Expected in Spring Over Poor Copper Projections

March 13 (gogo.mn) State Budget approved by the State Great Khural provisioned the copper prices to be at USD 6500, while the current market prices are at USD 5700, which might impose negative outcomes at the budget income.

Budget deficit usually come evident around October of each year with the interruption of the operations of state entities. This situation has started quite early for this year as Ulaanbaatar Railroad and other state owned entities are facing problems with their salaries.

As the prices of main commodity of Mongolia copper, which is the main contributor to Mongolia's state budget, is falling at the international market, there might be possible adjustments at the State Budget this spring.

Link to article

UB Housing Prices Fall for 7th Month in February, Down 5.06% from 2014

% Change

Index

MoM

YTD

YoY

2015/02

1.173

-0.501

-1.401

-5.06

2015/01

1.179

-0.905

-0.905

-2.236

2014/12

1.189

-0.718

-0.541

-0.541

2014/11

1.198

-1

0.179

0.475

2014/10

1.21

-1.596

1.191

2.997

2014/09

1.23

-1.039

2.832

9.264

2014/08

1.243

-0.669

3.911

10.82

2014/07

1.251

0.523

4.611

18.371

2014/06

1.245

0.869

4.068

19.138

2014/05

1.234

-1.396

3.171

20.785

2014/04

1.251

-0.509

4.632

22.554

2014/03

1.258

1.816

5.167

23.743

2014/02

1.235

2.458

3.292

22.667

2014/01

1.206

0.814

0.814

20.569

2013/12

1.196

0.296

2013/11

1.192

1.484

2013/10

1.175

4.392

2013/09

1.126

0.371

2013 8

1.121

6.099

2013/07

1.057

1.174

2013/06

1.045

2.263

2013/05

1.022

0.048

2013/04

1.021

0.456

2013/03

1.016

0.94

2013/02

1.007

0.697

2013/01

1

Link to release

8% Mortgage Program Update: ₮554.4 Billion Refinanced, ₮1.73 Trillion Newly Issued

March 12 (Cover Mongolia) As of March 12, ₮554.4 billion (₮₮548.9billion as of February 27) existing mortgages of 18,790 citizens (18,646as of February 27) were refinanced at 8% out of ₮823.4 billion (₮820.3billion as of February 27) worth requests.

Also, ₮1,722.9 billion (₮1,679.2billion as of February 27) new mortgages of 30,510 citizens (29,751citizens as of February 27) were issued at new rates out of ₮1.77 trillion (₮1.69 trillion as of February 27) worth requests.

Link to release (in Mongolian)

Unemployment Up 0.8% in February to 33.8K, Average Salary ₮844K in Q4

Ulaanbaatar, March 12 (MONTSAME) The number of unemployed reached 33.8 thousand at the end of February, showing an increase of three hundred people or 0.8 percent compared to the same period of the previous year and a decrease of two thousand people or 5.6 percent against the previous month, reports the National Statistics Office.

In the report of the social security contributions by the fourth quarter of 2014, the average wages of employees was at 844 thousand Togrog, of which women's -- 782.8 thousand Togrog and men's -- 905.1 thousand Togrog.

In the first two months of 2015, the revenue of Social Insurance Fund amounted to MNT 190 billion, reflecting an increase of 1.1 billion Togrog or 0.6 percent, and the expenditure of the fund reached MNT 231.2 billion, reflecting an increase of 38.1 billion Togrog or 19.7 percent compared to same period of the previous year.

Link to article

Moody's: Ghana and Mongolia's Commodity Dependence Strains Weak Credit Profiles

Singapore, March 12, 2015 -- Moody's Investors Service says that the credit profiles of Ghana and Mongolia - both rated B2 with negative outlooks - are constrained by their exposure to commodities, strained public finances and external vulnerabilities.

Ghana's high debt and deficit levels are a key drag on its credit quality, while Mongolia's elevated vulnerability to external risks and weak governance are its primary rating constraints--both sovereigns were downgraded by one notch in 2014.

Moody's conclusions were contained in a just-released report, "Ghana, Government of and Mongolia, Government of: Commodity Dependence Strains Weak Credit Profiles".

The two countries have abundant natural resources that have attracted high levels of foreign investment and have produced rapid economic growth. However, dependence on natural resources has exposed both economies to volatility in commodity prices and shifts in investor sentiment, undermining growth prospects in both countries and straining government finances.

In addition, downward pressures on exports and capital inflows have reduced foreign-exchange reserve buffers. Unpredictability in the policy environment has weighed on economic growth more in Mongolia than in Ghana.

While both countries will face heightened external pressures from sovereign bond repayments in the coming years, falling commodity prices will hurt Ghana more than Mongolia, given the former's position as a net oil exporter. But Mongolia's external risks are more pronounced due to a sharp drop in foreign direct investment over the last year.

Weak fiscal management is also a shared credit risk, but while Mongolia's fiscal performance is strongly correlated with commodity cycles, Ghana's public finances outcomes are more closely tied to electoral cycles.

Moody's further notes that Ghana's public finances are more strained, as seen in its much heavier debt burden and weaker debt affordability metrics. In the case of Mongolia, interest payments comprise a lower 4.5% of revenues, versus 23% for Ghana -- but this relative strength is diminishing as interest payments rise and mineral and corporate tax revenues decline.

Subscribers can access the full report at http://www.moodys.com/viewresearchdoc.aspx?docid=PBC_1002422

Link to release

Moody's: Mongolia banking system outlook negative; economic pressure rising

Hong Kong, March 06, 2015 -- Moody's Investors Service says the negative outlook on Mongolia's banking system -- unchanged since 2013 -- reflects the multiple headwinds that continue to challenge Mongolian banks.

"While Mongolia's expanding mining capacity is a main driver in our growth assumption, weak commodity prices and slowing global demand continue to weigh on the outlook for the country's national income and external position," says Hyun Hee Park, a Moody's Assistant Vice President and Analyst.

"We expect Mongolian banks' credit profiles to suffer broad pressure after a period of rapid policy-triggered credit growth in recent years, which will be reflected in a continued deterioration in asset quality, liquidity and capitalization," adds Park.

Park was speaking on the release of Moody's "Banking System Outlook Mongolia".

The report -- whose outlook expresses Moody's expectation of how bank creditworthiness will evolve in this system over the next 12-18 months -- looks at Mongolia's banking system in terms of five factors: Operating environment (which is classified as deteriorating); funding and liquidity (deteriorating); asset quality and capital (deteriorating); profitability and efficiency (deteriorating); and systemic support (stable).

Moody's says economic growth will remain subdued in Mongolia over the next 12-18 months, driven by a slowdown in foreign direct investment and tightening macroeconomic policies.

The country's weak external position could keep its exchange rate under pressure and its inflation rate high, thereby requiring the Bank of Mongolia to maintain its tight monetary policy stance.

Moody's assessment of Mongolia's banks takes into account the consideration that published metrics may not accurately reflects the true financial situation. For example, Moody's estimates that reported capital ratios are overstated by as much as 100 basis points due to regulatory forbearance.

While a resolution of the government's dispute with Rio Tinto plc (A3 stable) over Phase 2 of the Oy Tolgoi mining project would facilitate further foreign direct investment, such rebound is by no means a panacea, says Moody's.

It would take several quarters for foreign direct investment to have a tangible economic impact, and will do little to ease the immediate strains the banks face over the next 12-18 months.

Moody's rates the four largest commercial banks in Mongolia as well as the government-related policy bank Development Bank of Mongolia LLC (B2 negative). Moody's-rated commercial banks accounted for 65% of total system loans and 66% of total system deposits as of 30 September 2014.

Of the four commercial banks that Moody's rates, it assigns a baseline credit assessment of b2 to Khan Bank LLC and a BCA of b3 to Trade and Development Bank of Mongolia LLC, State Bank LLC and XacBank LLC. All four carry long-term local currency deposit ratings of B2 and negative rating outlooks.

Subscribers can access the full report at http://www.moodys.com/viewresearchdoc.aspx?docid=PBC_1002544

Link to release

BoM issues ₮99 billion 1-week bills, total outstanding +24.9% to ₮217.4 billion

March 13 (Bank of Mongolia) BoM issues 1 week bills worth MNT 99 billion at a weighted interest rate of 13.0 percent per annum /For previous auctions click here/

Link to release

GoM Bond Auction: Announced ₮15 Billion 3-Year Bills Sold at Premium, Average Yield 16.9%

March 11 (Bank of Mongolia) Auction for 3 years maturity Government Bond was announced at face value of 15 billion MNT and each unit was worth 1 million MNT. Face value of 15.0 billion /out of 15.0 billion bid/ Government Treasury bill was sold to the banks at premium price and with weighted average yield of 16.900%

Link to release

GoM Treasury Auction: ₮5 Billion 28-Week Bills Sold at Discount, Average Yield 16%

March 11 (Bank of Mongolia) Auction for 28 weeks maturity Government Treasury bill was announced at face value of 30.0 billion MNT. Face value of 5.0 billion MNT /out of 25.0 billion MNT bid/ Government Treasury bill was sold at discounted price and with weighted average yield of 16.000%.

Please find expanded information from Table.

Announced amount /by MNT/

30,000,000,000

Received bid amount /by MNT

25,000,000,000

Sold amount /by MNT/

5,000,000,000

Weighted average yield

16.000%

Maximum yield of fulfilled bids

16.000%

Minimum yield of fulfilled bids

16.000%

Link to release

Back to top

Politics & Legal

Mogi: GoM's next Naomi Watts for King Kong

Mongolia Govt Gives Go-Ahead to State Bank to Issue $300m Bond

By Michael Kohn

March 12 (Bloomberg) -- Govt resolves to allow State Bank of Mongolia board of directors to issue $300m bond in international mkts, according to a report on state web site zasag.mn March 10.

* Decision reflects a govt plan on overcoming economic difficulties, passed by parliament on Feb. 18

* Plan seeks to promote lower interest rates and long-term foreign-currency funding

* Plan seeks to promote lower interest rates and long-term foreign-currency funding

* NOTE: Moody's assigned a first-time foreign currency long- term deposit rating of B3 to State Bank on March 2

(BFW)

Similar:

Mongolia's State Bank to Issue Bond on International Stock Market Equivalent up to 300 Million USD – InfoMongolia, March 11

MPP Reform Committee Calls for Zoljargal's Resignation

March 12 (gogo.mn) MPP Reform Committee held Bank of Mongolia and Economic Downturn discussion today. At the beginning of the discussion researchers Kh.Batsuuri and L.Gangerel briefed the participants on the current economic situation, currency reserves and export income of Mongolia.

About two and a half years ago MPP Reform Committee has been established and it has come out with the announcement that Bank of Mongolia management should resign citing the economic situation of the country is getting worse, tugrug depreciation went on, 119 thousand people have lost their jobs and the purchasing power of the residents has been declining. Also they have mentioned that Ch.Altankhuyag, Ch.Ulaan and N.Batbayar have resigned, while N.Zoljargal is still holding his position.

Also they have said that Mongolian citizens are living in between the loans, whereas Bank of Mongolia is not doing its job to stabilize tugrug depreciation and holding the currency reserves at the safety level. During past period Bank of Mongolia supplied total of MNT 4 trillion into market and now it is time that we demand the results of those money supply and ask how many jobs have been created.

While D.Boldbaatar, Director of the Monetary Policy and Research at the Bank of Mongolia replied with denial that Bank of Mongolia supplied total of MNT 3.3 trillion and that number never reached 4 trillion and 2 trillion those 3.3 trillion where directed at financing the 8 percent mortgage loans, as at that time GoM was not able to finance the program alone and BoM supplied money. And added that due to complications at Oyu Tolgoi 2700 employees were laid off alone, while the mining sector has seen downsizing of 50 thousand jobs, it was inevitable that BoM had to support the construction sector.

MPP Reform Committee is convinced that resignation of BoM Governor N.Zoljargal will prevent any more malicious monetary policy. Also the critics have touched president as well.

Head of the MPP Reform Committee B.Gankhuyag said: "The nation is still tightening its belts. There is no direction in our economy. How long the nation should wait? President is beating around the bush. Does Prime Minister have any power?"

Link to article

Mongolia to Show Further Support of Gold Production with Soft Loans

Ulaanbaatar, March 12 (MONTSAME) The cabinet of Ministers at its irregular meeting on Wednesday discussed ways of increasing the gold mining activities. In order to sustain the economic growth, promote the realistic development of the sector, and to increase the foreign exchange reserve, the Minister of Finance J.Erdenebat and the Minister of Mining R.Jigjid were told to undertake works on promoting the gold mining, studying investment possibilities for the registered gold deposits, and settling the easy-term loan sources.

Financing these promotion activities was assigned to the executive director of the Development Bank of Mongolia (DB) N.Monkhbat, whereas a president of the Bank of Mongolia (BoM) B.Zoljargal was obligated to support the development of appropriate financing scheme.

The Ministers of Finance and Mining were also charged to provide possibility to take out loans from commercial banks in cases of reaching agreements with any gold-mining companies that are able to continue operations in frames of the amendments to the "Law on Prohibiting Mineral Exploration and Extraction Near Water Sources, Protected Areas and Forests".

The cabinet also told the Minister of Environment, Green Development and Tourism D.Oyunkhorol and the Minister R.Jigjid to issue regulations and agreement/contract templates regarding the amendments to the above law, to determine the boundaries of the protected and specially-protected areas within the referred territories of water reserves, and to register and receive resource clarifications, feasibility studies, and detailed analyses of environmental impact, within the first quarter of 2015.

D.Oyunkhorol, R.Jigjid, also the Justice and Defence Ministers D.Dorligjav and Ts.Tsolmon were obliged to take under the protection the gold deposits and occurrences that overlap with the state borderlines and special-use areas, and, if required, to consider commercializing such deposits and to develop and present proposals on the issues.

Regarding the growth in gold mining operations, the Deputy Premier U.Khurelsukh along with the Ministers of Finance and Mining were told to develop and submit proposals on the capacity building of the Assay Office at the National Agency of Standardization and Metrology, and on the improvement of clearance system.

Link to article

Speaker Takes Site Tour of Oyu Tolgoi

March 9 (news.mn) On March 6, administrators of Oyu Tolgoi LLC met with Speaker of Parliament Z.Enkhbold and accompanying officials at the OT mine site, and presented updated, general information regarding the operation of the mine.

Director of Local Relations Sh.Baigalmaa introduced local projects being implemented by the company.

Since the export of its first copper concentrate 19 months ago, on February 18, the amount of exported copper concentrate reached one million tons.

In 2014, the Oyu Tolgoi mine produced 148,400 tons of ore containing copper and 589,000 ounces of gold containing concentrate.

Ore containing concentrate from the mine is processed at the mine's factory, and administrators of the factory told the Speaker that in 2015, the factory is going to produce 175,000 to 195,000 tons of copper concentrate and 600,000 to 700,000 ounces of gold concentrate for export.

Presently there are 16 female drivers operating heavy machinery from Komatsu for production, and the OT officials introduced the work of one of the women.

The Speaker stressed that Mongolian women are very strong, which could be seen from the driving of heavy machinery by these women.

The Speaker was also introduced to the crushing plants for ore from the mine and with the packaging factory for final products. Specialists from the central Geological Laboratory of Germany are working at the packaging factory and drying ready concentrate. After the determination of the concentrate's dry weight, it is sent to an authorized laboratory for inspection.

There are 6,500 employees working at Oyu Tolgoi, 95 percent of whom are Mongolians. Twenty-one percent of the Mongolian employees are residents of Umnugobi Province. The officials also pointed out that Oyu Tolgoi has purchased goods valued at 42 million USD from supply companies in the province.

In 2014 Oyu Togloi LLC paid 250 million USD in taxes and fees to the Government of Mongolia.

As reported by the Media and Public Relations Department of the Parliament the following MPs and officials accompanied the Speaker on his visit to the Oyu Tolgoi mine: MP D.Bat-Erdene, Senior Advisor of the Speaker S.Lamba, Advisor of the Speaker D.Lkhagvasuren, Head if the Board of Directors of OT G.Batsukh, Executive Director of Erdenes Oyu Tolgoi LLC D.Ganbold, General Operational Manager of Oyu Togloi LLC Andrew Miller, and others.

Link to article

Related:

Speaker visits Oyu Tolgoi Mine – Montsame, March 9

Mongolia to Incrementally Increase Energy Prices to Cut Losses

March 13 (news.mn) Minister of Energy D.Zorigt has participated in an open meeting named " Time & Questions to the Minister" and spoke to journalists about the current implementation of projects in the energy sector and future plans to be implemented in this field.

At the beginning of the meeting, the Minister noted the present activity being carried out in the energy sector and introduced future plans. Presently, Mongolia is receiving 20 percent of its total energy from Russia and China. The Minister mentioned that outstanding projects which have been talked about for several years have still not been implemented yet. As the prices for energy consumption have been regulated by the state power stations and energy distribution companies have been working with losses, the sector has faced difficulties and has not been able to renovate its technology.

As reported by the Minister of Energy, as of today, power stations are trading produced energy for 122 MNT, however, the cost without value added is 144 MNT, resulting in losses of 22 MNT per 1 kw/hour. As of 2014, the energy sector has faced losses of 68.5 billion MNT.

The consumption of energy is continuing to increase. In the past year, the number of businesses and households consuming electricity has increased by 35,000 and users of heating by 40,000.

The energy sector has declared 2015 the year of improving efficiency and decreasing expenses. With this goal, the energy sector is planning to save 17 billion MNT. The Minister of Energy has raised several important issues in the energy sector and answered the questions of journalists.

At the end of the meeting, the Minister stressed that the Ministry of Energy is working on the elaboration of a state policy document to be adhered to in this sector.

Link to article

Related:

D.Zorigt at "Minister's 30 minutes" – Montsame, March 13

Banks Ruled to Be Double-Charging Consumers on Loans, Loses Appeal to AFCCP

March 12 (gogo.mn) Nine commercial banks have appealed at the administrative court over the charges raised by the Fair Competition and Consumer Protection Agency and lost the case.

Earlier Fair Competition and Consumer Agency held audit on 13 commercial banks in regard of consumer complaints being charged double fees at the banks. Banks are still charging the double fees as of now, hitting hard the borrowers:

- Bank loan fees supposed to be one time charge only and of one type, whereas banks tend to misinterpret and mislead its customers as separate charges, which is an illegal action.

- Above actions are seen as the conflict of interests and intended act of illegal overcharging of the customers.

- Loan fees are interpreted as unpredictable charges, which have been set too high and derogatory in view of the customers rights, breaching the equality of the contract.

Although Fair Competition and Consumer Agency has sent the notes on eliminating those violations nine commercial banks: Capitron Bank, Trade and Development Bank, Golomt Bank, Arig Bank, Khan Bank, Capital Bank, Chinggis Khaan Bank, Ulaanbaatar City Bank and Xac Bank have appealed the decision and the 20th Initial Administrative Court hearing, which took place on March 11th, ruled out in favor of Fair Competition and Consumer Agency.

Bank regulations for loans indicate the charge of fees equal to 1% of the total loan sum. Meaning, for a loan sized MNT10 billion bank will charge MNT10 million and for MNT20 billion fee will rise to MNT20 million for service charges. Fair Competition and Consumer Agency claims that service fee for 10 and 20 billion should not vary that much and fees should not base on a flat rate.

Link to article

Mongolia to Issue Electronic Health Insurance Cards in Reform Efforts

March 12 (news.mn) The Ministry of Welfare and Population Development told journalists yesterday about reforms to the Health Insurance Law approved on January 29, 2015.

Under the revised law, insured citizens who have paid social insurance fees will be entitled to receiving high quality, secure, healthcare services with health insurance expenses to be paid from the social insurance fund.

Insured citizens will be able to receive discounts when purchasing prescribed medication from district out-patient clinics, and also have the right to claim deductions and discounts for family members. Starting this year, electronic medical identification cards will be provided to each person with state health insurance.

The new Health Insurance Law will take effect on July 7, 2015.

Link to article

Cabinet Backs Bill on Trade for Submission

Ulaanbaatar, March 10 (MONTSAME) At its meeting on Monday, the cabinet backed a draft law on trade of Mongolia and then obliged D.Erdenebat, the Minister of Industry, to submit it to parliament.

With 35 clauses in 11 articles, the bill has been formulated to ensure NGOs' participation in the trade structure, types, methods, criteria for the domestic and external trade, responsibilities and rights of traders, to form a data of trade, to support, regulate and facilitate trade.

According to the draft, the trade is divided into the types of products, services and intellectual property. The law also aims to create a general policy for the external and domestic policy, to ensure the unity of trade activities and to do trades within the World Trade Organization (WTO) and other international contracts and agreements.

Link to article

Saikhanbileg: Bill to Be Submitted to Streamline Business Permitting - PM Weekly Briefing

March 12 (news.mn) The Government of Mongolia says it is taking step by step measures in order to create a favorable business environment in Mongolia.

Drafts of laws on regulations, inspection, and permits have been submitted to the Parliament and will be discussed in their spring session.

Today's topic of the meeting "Solution Time", organized each Wednesday by the Prime Minister, introduced the topic of a transparent regulation system.

Prime Minister Ch.Saikhanbileg told the meeting's attendees, "The economy will recover only by sustaining tax payers and employers.

"Repressing wealth creators through inspections is similar to repressing the economy. In our country there are a lot of bans with the name 'permission' attached. Therefore, the Government of Mongolia has initiated a draft law about permits and submitted it for the approval of Parliament."

At the beginning of the meeting, the Prime Minister stressed that he has instructed the information and technology management sector to establish a similar regulation system. As a result, starting today, a new website is now online to share information about the industry's regulations, www.shilenhyanalt.gov.mn.

The Prime Minister instructed officials who participated in the meeting to share this website with business owners and launch its promotion.

Link to article

Saikhanbileg: Mongolia Will Take Legal Steps to Not Repeat Hotel Mongolia

By G. Orkhon

March 10 (Mongolian Economy) Prime Minister Ch.Saikhanbileg held a meeting with American Chamber of Commerce in Mongolia (AmCham). At the beginning of the meeting, Chairman of AmCham Mongolia Jackson Cox said: "We believe Mongolia will find solutions to the economic issues very soon. Amcham will support the Prime Minister and other decision makers, and try to cooperate henceforth." More than 100 representatives of foreign and domestic companies gathered during the meeting.

Most of the investors and entrepreneurs who were participating in the meeting wanted to know the current investment atmosphere in Mongolia, and what measures parliament is undertaking to improve the situation. Participators emphasised the case of the management of SouthGobi Sands, which sent a nightmarishly negative message to foreign investors. The Prime Minister said: "Judicial departments must correct the incomprehensible court decrees and laws. In order to avoid such situations in the future, we shall discuss if need to make amendments to the tax law during the spring session. I am confident that we will not face situations like this again, because Mongolia is heading in the right direction."

The Prime Minister added that participation of private sector actors in the development of value added manufacturing will bring about success. The meeting participants expressed their support of this belief. The government will provide support to the megaprojects Oyu Tolgoi, Tavan Tolgoi and Sainshand Industrial Park by increasing the involvement of the private sector and letting them handle management.

Ch.Saikhanbileg stressed that Mongolia is not against investors. The government considers making changes to address both the past and current situations. A government study of international tax system standards is underway, in order to change the tax system during the forthcoming spring session. The Prime Minister said: "I think it would be wise to invest during the world market commodity price decline. I hope the investors see this opportunity to benefit when commodity prices rise again. We will continue our current work vigorously."

Link to article

Cabinet Appoints Heads of Customs, Meteorology Agencies

Ulaanbaatar, March 12 (MONTSAME) By a decision of the cabinet made at its irregular meeting on Wednesday, D.Tsogt-Ochir has been appointed the head of the Authority of Meteorology and Hydrology (AMH), and B.Tsengel--the head of the Customs Office of Mongolia.

Mr Tsogt-Ochir used to work as a first deputy head of the Cabinet Secretariat for Government and as acting head of the AMH.

Link to article

Mogi: law to implement laws, lol

Standing Committee Holds 4th Discussion of Rule of Implementing Laws and Regulations Bill

Ulaanbaatar, March 11 (MONTSAME) The parliamentary Standing committee on justice held Wednesday a fourth discussion of a bill on the rule of implementing laws and regulations for formulating and submitting draft laws.

This bill has been worked out and submitted by the cabinet to parliament with a support of the "Backing legislative actions with civil participation" project, which is being co-implemented by parliament and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).

Head of the Standing committee D.Ganbat opened the discussion. He said that a plenary meeting of the parliamentary session on January 30 backed a matter on discussing this bill, submitted by the cabinet on January 23, and that a working group has been set up to prepare the draft for the first discussion.

After this, a speech was given by B.Boldbaatar, the secretary-general of the Parliamentary Office and director of the above project. Main objectives of the project are to improve legislative actions by running policy research at parliament and consulting participants, to strengthen the ties between citizens and elected representatives, to issue a report on the UN Anti-Corruption Convention and to support a process of implementation and realization of policies and laws regarding ethics and conflicts of interests, he said.

Minister of Justice D.Dorligjav gave a report on the bill's concept and preamble. Moreover, delegates from the Union of Mongolian Lawyers and NGOs and businessmen expressed their positions on the draft law.

Link to article

Mongolia Parliament Holds Discussion on Present Situation of Implementation of Laws

Ulaanbaatar, March 12 (MONTSAME) The Speaker of parliament Z.Enkhbold addressed a "Present situation of implementation of Mongolian laws and regulations" discussion on Thursday at the State House.

He emphasized that it is vital to take some measures for improving a fulfillment of national laws and regulations, to upgrade the working correlations of Ministries and agencies, and to draw a special attention to increasing of the responsibilities and disciplines. The monitoring over decisions made by parliament is important in resolving urgent social-economic problems in times of economic difficulties, he stressed.

The secretary-general of the Parliamentary Office B.Boldbaatar took the floor to say Mongolia currently has 434 valid laws, "it is important to improve the correlation of state organizations in realizing laws, and citizens and public organizations must control the implementation".

Department heads of the Parliamentary Office delivered some reports "Present situation of laws' fulfillment in Mongolia", "Implementation of laws and regulations and audit of harmonization", "Ongoing measures for improving monitoring over laws' implementation and their effectiveness", "Evaluating aspects of laws' implementation", and "Parliamentary monitoring system of laws' realization".

After this, then gathered considered issues such as a general data system, information exchange about methods of monitoring and evaluating, an update of a control over laws' implementation and its effectiveness.

Among the participants were S.Demberel, Kh.Temuujin MPs; S.Lambaa, a chief advisor to the Speaker; authorities of bodies at parliament; officials of parliament, government, Ministries and agencies.

Link to article

President Elbegdorj ready to submit domestic violence bill to Parliament

March 9 (news.mn) As explained by State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice J.Bayartsetseg, President Ts.Elbegdorj has a draft law against domestic violence ready for submission to Parliament for approval.

The President has participated on the morning talk show to exchange views on women rights in conjunction with the celebration of International Women's Day, on March 8, in participation with MONFEMNET's annual meeting on women's rights organized with the President's Office.

MONFEMNET is a national network of Mongolian women. This year's meeting was named "Viewpoints of Women".

The assembly focused on the topic of accountability of the state according to women's viewpoints, addressing the issue of national security, individual and economic security, and the security of nature and the environment.

At the end of the meeting President Ts.Elbegdorj addressed the public:

I would like to express my gratitude for the discussion of a very wide range of political issues.

For a long time, the issue of women has been considered as an issue only concerning women. Now this is an issue for Mongolia as a whole. This is a social issue. We are not talking about women; we are talking about the political structure, and the Constitution of Mongolia.

We are talking about how the government is being supervised, how to change poor structure; we are presenting our suggestions regarding this and trying to find proper solutions.

I have initiated an open discussion at the Civil Hall and gave a presentation and led a discussion regarding this topic.

I would like to submit the draft law before the opening of the spring session of the Parliament. At the spring session, we would like to approve the draft law against domestic violence.

After long discussions and talks about domestic violence, we authored several clauses for the Criminal Law. However, I should point out that the changes made to the Criminal Law are very unclear.

We should note that some of the female MPs have put much attention on this issue. I would like to invite female MPs whose hearts are dedicated to this issue to be included in a working group on domestic violence.

Link to article

Lessons from Rio's Mongolian adventure

By Neil Hume and James Wilson

How to minimise the risks of joint ventures with governments

March 13 (The Commodities Note, FT) If Rio Tinto could start again with Oyu Tolgoi, a $12.6bn copper and gold mine in Mongolia, what would it do differently?

The question is addressed in an academic paper that examines ways to reduce the risks resource groups take when investing in frontier markets.

OT, which has already cost more than $6bn, is expected to be one of the biggest copper producers in the world and to last for decades. However, development has stalled as the Anglo-Australian mining group and the Mongolian government argue over how to pay for the second underground phase.

Rio is refusing to proceed until disagreements over cost overruns and taxes have been ironed out, while the cash-strapped Mongolian government wants to cut its 34 per cent equity stake in the project in return for higher royalties from the mine. (Mogi: not exactly, the royalty for equity swap is not retroactive)

Much is at stake for both sides. For Rio, the expansion of OT will bulk up its copper business and reduce its dependence on iron ore. For Mongolia, it needs cash quickly from the mine to meet spending commitments.

So what can be done to prevent this situation happening again? The paper, written by Henry Steel, a special adviser at Rio, and Stefano Gatti, of Bocconi University Milan, focuses on the investment agreement between Rio and the Mongolian government as a key source of tension.

Under the complex arrangement, the Mongolian government will not receive dividends from OT until a loan, used to finance its 34 per cent equity stake in the project, has been repaid. According to the report that could take almost 20 years. That is because the loan is being repaid using cash flow from the mine.

"This has been a great source of contention in Mongolia, where a dispute over the cost escalation has delayed the project, further exasperating the problem," says the paper, which has been reviewed by the Financial Times.

In fact it arguably renders the government's 34 per cent stake in OT close to worthless — and presumably explains why the Mongolian government is to keen to swap its stake for higher revenues and why Rio is not interested. (Mogi: again, not exactly, the royalty for equity swap is not retroactive)

A spokesperson for Rio Tinto said: "The document is an independent academic report. It was not commissioned, contributed to or reviewed by Rio Tinto and in no way represents the views of the company."

To better align interests the report examines a number of other approaches. One idea is to have host governments swap their project level equity for shares in the ultimate parent company of the developer - in this case Rio Tinto.

"Whilst the host government may not obtain great influence over a project through the holding of a minority position in top level equity, we believe that the benefits of such a proposal outweigh the losses of such a structure: a host government will no longer have to take on project risk," says the paper, titled "Risk management for multinational corporations in high risk jurisdictions".

"Further, using top level equity to acquire assets…would be preferable to a host government because the top level of cash flows consist of a more diversified portfolio of…assets, allowing an improved ability to plan a sustainable government budget," the paper says.

To prevent that government from selling its shares, the report says a lock-up period could be included as well as a clause that would allow the shares to be cancelled if the agreement is changed by the host government. This could be determined by an independent arbitrator.

Whether sovereigns are willing to accept shares in a multinational mining company, where they would be exposed to stock market fluctuations and have no control over dividend policy, is open to question. Equally, mining companies would probably be wary of giving equity to host governments that cannot be prevented from selling their shares for ever.

However, what the paper shows is two things: the import