However, ARM-based CPU manufacturer Qualcomm is noticeably absent from the hardware specification of the new Galaxy S smartphones, with Samsung finally opting for their own design ARM-based processor, the Exynos in the flagship devices.

Speaking with Samsung today at Mobile World Congress, they have confirmed that both the S6 and S6 Edge smartphones have been designed around Samsung’s own ARM-based Exynos 7420 processor technology.

This decision will undoubtedly be seen as a significant move by the smartphone giant to bring the design and manufacture of its mobile hardware in house.

A frequent partner to Samsung, Qualcomm, the largest supplier of mobile CPU technology, have supplied the CPU hardware for the majority of previous iterations of the Galaxy line, as well as those in the Note line and other mid-range Samsung devices.

Although Samsung have built their Exynos processors into devices in the past, most recently in certain regional variants of the Galaxy Note 4, this will be the first time that it has been rolled out world-wide in a flagship device.

The Octa-core processor in the new Galaxy S smartphones consists of two quad-core processors, a high-speed variant clocked at 2.1GHz, based on the ARM cortex-A57, and another operating at a lower 1.5GHz based on the ARM cortex-A53.

The new 14nm architecture gives the processor better performance and greater efficiency in a smaller footprint, with Samsung quoting an achievable 50% boost in device performance and 30% reduction in power consumption over its previous flagship smartphone, the Galaxy S5.

To complement the Exynos 7420, both the S6 and S6 Edge come with 3GB of DDR4 RAM and boast an ARM Mali-T760 GPU.

Samsung has also chosen to drop the use of Embedded MultiMediaCard (eMMC) storage in favour of the new Universal Flash Storage (UFS 2.0), which it claims offers a significant performance increase over existing embedded storage and external storage solutions.

Samsung confirmed the S6 and S6 Edge smartphones would have a world-wide launch in April.