CHARLOTTE, N.C. – The Charlotte women's basketball team opens up their American Athletic Conference slate of the schedule on Saturday (Dec. 30) inside Halton Arena as the Niners prepare to host the University of North Texas Mean Green.

FIRST GAME IN THE AMERICAN

Saturday's contest marks the first American Athletic Conference game for both sides, both coming from C-USA where they faced off 16 times since the 2013-14 season.

SERIES HISTORY

Charlotte and North Texas have met 16 times before, with the 49ers holding a 12-4 record. UNT defeated CLT by a score of 66-59 last season. At Halton Arena, the 49ers are 7-0 versus the Mean Green.

SCOUTING THE MEAN GREEN

North Texas enters Saturday's contest with a 10-2 record thus far into the 2023-24 season, most recently coming off a 71-58 loss at Montana State on December 21. UNT is ranked 75th in the current NET rankings, as they are the second highest ranked team in the AAC behind 68th ECU. Before the season, the Mean Green were selected to finish 12th in the American, ahead of UAB and Florida Atlantic.

The Mean Green's scoring offense of 76.2 points per game leads the American, while being second in the NCAA in free throw attempts (28.4) and third in free throws made per game (19.0). While defensively, UNT ranks 26th nationally and first in the AAC in field goal percentage defense (35.1%).

HEAD COACH

Jason Burton is in the middle of his first season with the Mean Green, the ninth head coach in program history. Burton recently concluded nine seasons at Texas A&M Commerce, where he was the all-time winningest coach and produced five All-Americans Under Burton's guidance, TAMUC entered their first season in Division I in 2022-23, reaching the semifinals of the Southland Conference Tournament following a 10-8 record in league play during the regular season.

PLAYERS TO WATCH

Tommisha Lampkin posted 16 points and eight rebounds in the Mean Green's win over the Niners last season. In 2023-24, Lampkin is averaging 13.7 points per game on an efficient 61.9% shooting from the floor, which leads the American. Last time out, she finished with 18 points at Montana State, with her best performance coming at Pepperdine when she scored 28. To go along with the efficient scoring. Lampkin is second on the team in rebounding (6.3) while protecting the paint with 14 blocks, and totaling 74 for her career.

A pair of WBCA DII All-Americans highlight the new additions as Texas A&M-Commerce transfers Dyani Robinson and DesiRay Ker­nal both joined Burton in the transition to join the Mean Green. Kernal leads North Texas in both scoring (17.3) and rebounding (8.9). So far this season, she has won the American Player of the Week along with an honor roll selection. Within the conference, Kernal leads in free throws made and attempted per game, second in double doubles, fourth in steals, and sixth in points per game.

RECAP OF NON-CONFERENCE

Charlotte finished their non-conference slate with a 7-5 record, including going 4-1 inside Halton Arena while splitting their four away contests. Notable wins include a victory over ACC opponent Wake Forest, and a thrilling fourth quarter comeback on the road at Charleston Southern. At home, the 49ers defeated Mercer, Gardner-Webb, UNC Asheville, and Tennessee State. At the 2023 Discover Puerto Rico Shootout, Charlotte concluded the tournament with a win over Atlantic 10 opponent George Washington.

GUARD/BIG COMBO

Dazia Lawrence and Tracey Hueston have led the way for the 49ers, as the guard and the post player both average double figures in scoring. Lawrence's 16.2 points per game ranks 9th in the American, while Hueston's 4.9 rebounds is second on the team, behind Keanna Rembert (5.1). Lawrence has been named to the American weekly honor roll twice this season. Hueston scored 21 points in the win over Wake Forest, with 10 of them coming in the fourth quarter to help close out the win. Defensively, she had four rebounds and two steals.

NEXT UP

Charlotte returns to Halton Arena on Saturday (Dec. 30) as they play host to the North Texas Mean Green for the first American Athletic Conference game of the 2023-24 season. Opening tip is scheduled for 4:00 p.m., with video, radio, and live stats links available online.

Players Mentioned