Like your food without all the chemicals created in some science lab to keep food looking natural a few weeks longer? True Food Kitchen has been open for some time in Boca Raton, Jacksonville, Naples and West Palm Beach. The first Tampa area location is open now at Midtown Tampa. The chain’s slogan is “eat optimistically.” They serve up stuff that’s natural, sustainably sourced and good for you. There are menu options for those who are vegan, vegetarian or are trying to stay away from gluten. To be quite honest, none of that is all that important to me. I’m far from a healthy eater. My big question: How does it taste? I was invited to come try a few things on the winter seasonal menu before True Food Kitchen opened its doors to Tampa February 28.

This was my first visit to Midtown Tampa in a few months. It’s bustling now. Sunshine Market at Midtown Tampa happens every 4th Saturday. True Food Kitchen has wide open spaces and takes advantage of Florida weather with an open air vibe when weather is cool enough. Our table loved the Champa Bay drink with organic rum, creme de fruit de la passion, coconut and mango. I passed on the alcohol and went with an apple lemonade. Really good for lunch hour heat in Tampa.

I went with the Grilled Chicken Parmesan. Sure I normally love my chicken deep fried, but this really had great flavor. They use an organic DiNapoli tomato sauce. The vegetables were fresh and crunchy. And I’m still one of those kids who usually has to be told to eat his vegetables. The Flourless Chocolate Cake was even better. The melt in your mouth factor is insane!

Hear more about a True Food Kitchen (:54) on the Experience Tampa Bay in 10 Minutes or Less podcast. Experience a Tampa Bay Rowdies game (6:55) and find out how you can try a bunch of south Tampa restaurants in one place (4:47).

Hear Geno on the air weekday afternoons. Geno's passions include fat guy food, concerts, sports, travel to Europe and South America. He loves 80s and 90s music, from MTV hairbands to old school freestyle, alternative rock to TRL era jams. Geno's radio career began in his hometown of Portland, Maine. Since then he's been on the air coast to coast from Boston to Las Vegas, Tampa to California.