The Teen Dramas

In the period following WWII when most of the films were filled with the portrayals of “ideal” roles of men and women, but the new generation of young people wanted new and exciting symbols of rebellion. Hollywood responded to audience demands Teen film is a film genre targeted at teenagers and young adults in which the plot is based upon the special interests of teenagers, such as coming of age, first love, rebellion, conflict with parents, teen angst, and alienation. Some of these films are targeted at adults as well as teenagers. Because of the boom in teen viewers, drive-in movie theaters were also very popular. The late 1940s and 1950s saw the rise of the teen anti-hero - with stars like newcomers James Dean, Paul Newman and Marlon Brando, replacing more proper actors like Tyrone Power, Van Johnson, and Robert Taylor. Teens also liked movies that featured the new music of Rock and Roll. They preferred the movie Rock Around the Clock (1956) that featured disc jockey (DJ) Alan Freed and the music group Bill Haley and His Comets (singing the title song) and many others (such as the Platters, and Freddy Bell and The Bell Boys) - it was the first film entirely dedicated to rock 'n' roll. It was quickly followed by two more similar films featuring Alan Freed (as Himself) -- Don't Knock the Rock (1956) and Rock, Rock, Rock (1956). Both films argued that rock-and-roll was a new, fun, and wholesome type of music. 50s decade also ushered in the age of Rock and Roll and a new younger market of teenagers. Hollywood soon realized that the affluent teenage population could be exploited.

Romantic Dramas & Comedies

Also the genre of Romantic Drama became popular An Affair to Remember (1957), the story of an ill-fated romance between Deborah Kerr and Cary Grant due to an automobile accident, delaying a rendezvous at the top of the Empire State Building in New York City. One of the decade's best comedies was Harvey (1950), Some of the best '50s comedy movies include Marilyn Monroe, the Blonde Bombshell herself. She appears in several iconic ‘50s comedy movies, including Some Like It Hot and The Seven Year Itch.Other female stars dominated the comedy film genre in the 1950s. Audrey Hepburn stars in Roman Holiday, and Elizabeth Taylor stars in Father of the Bride. ​​

Cold War paranoia, had created an increased interest in science and the increased fear of atomic bomb. These two things had a huge influence on the movies that were made in the 50s. This paranoia and curiosity led to many science fiction, fantasy and mysteries of about outer space or other unnatural events. Most were parodies (metaphors) for Communist invasions. For example, The Thing, Invasion of the Body Snatchers, The Blob, The Day the Earth Stood Still, The Thing from Another World, The War of the Worlds, It Came from Outer Space, and When Words Collide.