Watching movies in Russian is a great way to learn the language. This way you can improve your listening skills, learn new words and expressions, and even improve your grammar. In order for you to not waste time searching for sources, we offer you a list of sites for watching movies and TV shows in Russian.

On Netflix you will find movies and TV series in many languages of the world. You can not only watch original Russian films and series, but also any foreign films that are dubbed into Russian and accompanied by subtitles. And if, for example, you have already watched this movie in your native language and know the plot and dialogues, it is much easier to understand what is being discussed, and you can focus on the language even without the help of subtitles.

With the arrival of the pandemic and the introduction of restrictions on mass events in Russia, online cinemas began to develop actively. In terms of functionality and assortment, they are generally similar, so choose the one that you like the most. You can not only find plenty of Russian films, but also lots of foreign films with Russian subtitles.

In addition, you can watch Russian TV channels live, for example, on the website hd.kinopoisk. There is both a large free access collection of films, and some that you can get access to for a small fee. If you want to get rid of ads while watching, you need to pay for a subscription.

This is a great platform for watching movies and TV series in Russian, from Soviet to modern films. One of the YouTube channels, which presents a wide variety of TV shows, is “СТС”, the account of the Russian TV channel, which contains many series originally shown on television.

If you are looking for movies, try the “Мосфильм” channel. There are full-length films here, mostly of the XX century. Go to the “Playlists”, where the movies are grouped by category, for example, historical films. Not all movies on this channel have English subtitles, but there is a playlist called “Movies with English Subtitles”.

On this site, which acts as an aggregator, you will find about 500 films in Russian. Many of the films presented on this site can be viewed on YouTube and other sites. You can also buy them or rent them. The collection is represented by both Soviet films and modern ones. This site was created in order to make it as easy as possible to watch Russian movies for those for whom Russian is not their native language. You can choose a movie by genre, year, and available subtitle language.

«ВКонтакте» is the Russian «Facebook», but with a bigger arrange of possibilities.

Among other things, you can find almost any movie in «ВК»: from a Korean TV series of the 1980s to a movie that premiered yesterday.

There are two ways to find movies in Russian in VK. The first is to search in the “Video” section, which can be accessed from the sidebar on the left. Use filters to select only long files, otherwise trailers or ads will also come across as a result.

The second way is to watch movies in Russian on the community pages. On the left sidebar, click “Communities” and then “Search for Groups”, then paste the keywords you are interested in. Keep in mind that the more community members there are, the more content you will find there. Also try joining private communities (by sending them a request beforehand).

This site presents an excellent selection of more than 800 classic, popular and rare films and TV shows of Soviet and Russian cinema, shot over the last hundred years in a variety of genres. All films and TV shows on the site are subtitled in several languages: Russian, Turkish, Spanish, English, French, Portuguese and many others. You can improve your Russian not only by watching movies on the site, but also by downloading them (available by subscription). You can choose a movie by genre, year, director, and available subtitle language.

«Нетфликс», «ИВИ», «Кинопоиск» and even «ВКонтакте» are commercial platforms that buy the rights to movies and TV series. The rights they acquire are different: some apply to the whole world, others — only to certain countries. This means that these and other websites listed in the article provide different content in different places. To do this, they determine the geolocation of users. When you log into your account, for example, from Austria, you get access to content that may not be available when you are in Russia, and vice versa. Therefore, be prepared that some movies and TV shows may not be available depending on your location.

But you have a great choice of sites in any case, which means that you will have a pleasant viewing and you will be able to train your skills with pleasure!