1882 Civil War Monument

On West Park Avenue, opposite the Niles Post Office and in the southwest corner of the McKinley Memorial grounds stands a tall stately Quincy granite monument honoring Major-General James Birdseye McPherson, one of the real heroes of the Battle of Atlanta, July 22, 1864.

Today residents of Niles pass their Civil War monument probably not fully aware of its presence, for as long as anyone can remember, it has always been there. General McPherson, was the highest ranking soldier from Ohio killed in the war. General Sherman noted General McPherson’s heroic qualities in the eulogy.

On December 24, 1878 the McPherson post #16 of the Ohio Department of the Grand Army of the Republic was organized in Niles with 30 charter members. Josiah Robbins served as their first commander. The post grew to 150 members, although there were some 250 veterans from the community who saw service during the Civil War.

The purpose of this group was to instill in the minds of others the importance of a patriotic devotion to the ideals for which these veterans fought and to revere the names of those who made the supreme sacrifice. Regular meetings were held and civic affairs were always discussed.

Members of the McPherson Post #16 became interested in erecting a monument in honor of Major-General McPherson. The idea of raising funds for such a monument was presented to the voters of Weathersfield Township in March 1882.The issue passed almost unanimously. The monument was selected, a gray granite shaft surmounted by an eagle. The main shaft bears the inscription:

“Erected to the memory of our fallen heroes in the war of 1862- 1865.

By McPherson Post #16, Department of Ohio GAR

and the Citizens of Weathersfield Township,

General McPherson Killed July 22, 1864.”

Also on each side of the main shaft, just below the war emblems, are listed one of the following four battles: Fredericksburg, Gettysburg, Look Out Mountain, and Shiloh.

On Saturday, October 21, 1882 the monument was dedicated, starting off with the cannon being fired. A parade was formed and marched downtown, arriving at the speaker’s stand which was erected in front of the Town Hall. At that time the Town Hall was located on what is now known as North Arlington Street ,just west of where the McKinley Memorial now stands.

Speakers of the day were the Honorable E. B. Taylor of Warren and Honorable William McKinley from Niles. They both paid inspiring tribute to the patriotism of the private soldier as a power behind the famous generals of the army. They pointed it out that our nation owed it to her soldiers to deal generously with them, as they will never be overpaid for their sacrifices upon the battle field.

"From time to time after that, other Union soldiers joined the organization, which in 1890 reached a peak membership of 121. Slowly but surely in the years to come Father Time sounded taps to send veteran after veteran along to join their comrades of the great Grand Army of The Republic until now, in the year 1950, they have faded into history, gone but never to be forgotten.

These men built their homes and raised their families in our city. They became our merchants, our professional men and our manufacturing heads. By their active participation in the political and social affairs of our city, state and nation, they laid the foundation for the spirit and enterprise which has made Niles the hustling and thriving city it now is.

The post kept its organization alive and took an active part in all the social and civic activities of our city, but, in 1925, upon the death of their then commander, L. L. Holloway, and due to the physical condition of the few remaining members, they felt it their duty to advise Williams S. Matthews, then Assistant Adjutant of the Department of Ohio, that they wished to surrender their charter, but with the stipulation that it should remain here and be placed in the McKinley Memorial permanently.

This was allowed by the Ohio Department. However, the Sons and Daughters of the Union Veterans of The Civil War addressed a letter to McPherson Post No.16 under date of January 3, 1926, asking them to reconsider their decision and still continue to function, which they did and carried on until the last surviving member was no more.

They did not hold regular sessions, passing along to the American Legion and other patriotic societies, including the McPherson's Women's Relief Corps the task of handling the Memorial Day services, the placing of flags and decorating the graves of the deceased soldiers with flowers.

As of the date 1940 there were 44 soldiers of all wars buried in the St. Stephens Cemetery, including four Spanish American war veterans. One hundred sixty-five were listed in the Union Cemetery, which includes 10 veterans of the War of 1812 as well as four Spanish American veterans.

Since that time many more have passed away. It may be safe to assume that upwards of 2,000 veterans of all wars are buried in Niles and surrounding cemeteries".