The Comoros are situated at the south of the old Indian Ocean coast monsoon trade route and have long-standing and close links with the Swahili world. Comorian or Shikomori, one of the three official languages of the Comoros along with Arabic and French, is a Sabaki language and closely related to Swahili, even though the two are sufficiently different to prevent mutual intelligibility – as Hannah and Lutz found when visiting the Comorian capital Moroni in January 2024

By Lutz Marten and Hannah Gibson

We visited the Comoros after our visit to Lamu – so travelling from the north of the Swahili coast to the very south. A long history of linguistic divergence from other varieties of Sabaki, including Swahili, as well as language contact and influences from Malagasy and French, the colonial power of the Comoros until 1975, mean that Shikomori is a separate language from Swahili, although there are close historical relations. When listening to Shikomori, some words are very similar to Swahili – maji is water, marahab is thank you, samahani is excuse me – but they are like islands in a stream of different sounds. Likewise, speaking Swahili results in bewilderment or laughter!

However, there is Swahili on the Comoros. Due to the close links to Kenya, Tanzania and especially Zanzibar, speakers of Swahili come and visit, and we were told about Swahili speakers at the local market, although we didn’t have a chance to visit them. Swahili is also a popular language to learn as a foreign language at university level. When having lunch on the first day of our visit, it turned out to be easier to order in Swahili than in English or French as our waitress Layna was a keen learner of Swahili!

On our second day on the island, we paid a visit to the Centre National de Documentation et de Recherche Scientifique (CNDRS) where we were very warmly welcomed by the Director General of the Centre Dr Toiwilou Mze Hamadi and his team. The Centre is engaged in research and activities related to language, culture and intangible heritage, and is also the site of a cultural and historical museum, as well as a small bookshop (where we made a few very good purchases).

At the Centre we met the scholar, linguist, and poet Ibrahima Mohamed Ibrahim, who is an active promotor of the learning of Swahili on the Comoros and has written two textbooks for learning Swahili for speakers of Shikomori. We had a long chat and were fortunate enough to record some poetry recital as well. In the poet’s office, we also met a young Chinese scholar and teacher of Shikomori, Maria Kong Yuan, hailing from Beijing Foreign Studies University, which Lutz had visited just a few weeks before – it’s a small world indeed.

In a final meeting the next day, Mohamed Ibrahim introduced us to mwalimu Hamdani Bakari, a professor of history from the University of the Comoros. We had good discussion about Swahili, Shikomori and its different dialects, and the links between the Comoros and the wider East African coast.

Strictly speaking, Shikomori falls outside of the scope of our present project, but the visit has provided lots of ideas for future projects and collaboration with the scholars and colleagues we met and we are keen to explore these options further.