Email address to subscribe to newsletter.

By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

The indie drama stars Blythe Danner, a veteran Tony-winning stage actress who many recognize as the movie mom in the “Meet the Fockers” series –and the real mother of Gwyneth and Jake Paltrow; their father and her husband, producer Bruce Paltrow, died 13 years ago.

In that sense she’s familiar with the widow Carol Peterson in “I’ll See You in My Dreams,” who lives a comfortable but lonely life in Los Angeles with her shaggy old dog, having not kissed another man since the death of her husband 20 years before. When she has to put down her beloved canine companion, she’s shaken and starts to open up, to her depressed young pool man (Martin Starr of “Silicon Valley”), who takes her out to sing karaoke (the former singer is sensational), to her young professional daughter (Marin Akerman) and her bridge group of fun retirees (Mary Kay Place, Rhea Perlman and June Squibb). After one memorable game they toke some medical marijuana and behave like a gaggle of giggling teenagers. It’s at the retirement village that she spots rangy newcomer Bill (Sam Elliott) across a crowded room–and starts an affair with him.

This is just the sort of smart, well-observed dramedy that art house exhibitors are clamoring to sell to their most reliable customers: baby boomers. Look at the numbers on “Philomena,” “Nebraska,” “Last Vegas,” “Calender Girls,” “Enough Said,” “Amour,” and “Enchanted April.” In fact, Fox Searchlight is readying “The Exotic Marigold Hotel 2.” That’s why Bleecker Street picked up the film written by director Haley and Marc Basch and produced by Two Flints’ Rebecca Green and Laura Smith.

I sat down with a Danner and Elliott, who were both jazzed after their standing ovation at the premiere screening at Sundance, where Danner, 71, started off by congratulating Elliott, 70, on his two other Sundance premieres –Joe Swanberg’s “Digging for Fire” and Paul Weitz’s “Grandma,” opposite Lily Tomlin. He in turn praised her non-stop theater work (Broadway’s “Nice Work If You Can Get It,” “The Country House”). Their on-screen chemistry is palpable off-screen as well; you can see that he admires her well-bred elegance, while she responds to his gravelly masculine charm. Amazingly, this marks Danner’s first lead role in a movie.

SE: Everyone is so preoccupied by youth. People talk about how the movie business is a microcosm of the bigger picture, or life imitating art, but the business is guilty for getting women out of the way. I live with one of those gals [Katharine Ross] who was on the cover of Vogue when she was at her peak. I live with her now and she’s not working. Once you’re bit and you love this, you don’t want to not work. It’s painful to see that shit, so many of them are about computerized bullshit that has nothing to do with reality, it’s all virtual. Here at Sundance we still have filmmakers, but it’s a handful.

Are so many movie actors returning to the stage because there are fewer good parts?

BD: Bradley Cooper was a Williamstown kid, we’d go there every summer. He’s a real theater person, a lot of people who start out in theater have that discipline. Many movie stars come there and can’t cut it: the energy and command and discipline it takes.

SE: I’m terrified to get on the stage. I did theater before I left Portland, it would terrify me.

BD: You’re a natural.

SE: I’m working on “Justified” on FX, doing the whole last season. I have a romance with Mary Steenburgen, who’s fun to work with, we’re both wacky. Last year was a great year movie-wise. You don’t know what’s around the corner, I’m ever hopeful there is in fact another job looming. TV is the same phenomenon: the indies are soaring above the commercial ranks. You go where the great material is. You’re not going to get a lot of money unless you make the commitment to do a series, unless it’s built around you or you’re producing.

BD: I hear your voice on television every day! (His booming drawl is familiar in voiceovers for car and beer companies.)

SE: That’s the money in the bank that allows me to turn all that shit down.