NEW YORK CITY His best scene was left on the cutting room floor. The resulting film contains gratuitous violence and sex. But Sam Elliott still has a soft spot in his heart for "Road House."

"This film was a lot of fun, regardless of what you feel about the finished product," says the 44-year-old Elliott, who plays veteran bouncer Wade Garrett in "Road House," which opened in the Oklahoma City area last week. Also starring in "Road House" are Patrick Swayze, Kelly Lynch and Ben Gazzara.

"If you take any of this too seriously, then you're going to be so put off by the delivery of it. You know, it's Mad magazine not to be taken too seriously.

"When this project first came to me ... the role that I was being offered was Wesley, the heavy, and I turned it down. (Gazzara wound up with that role.) And it came to me a month later (with the Garrett part) and I said I'll have another look at it."

Elliott got the role of Garrett, who plays the mentor to Dalton (played by Swayze). Dalton is a younger bouncer the hottest thing on the bar scene. Garrett, on the other hand, realizes that wild men (and women) in a bar every night of your life is not what it's cracked up to be.

Elliott plays a man old enough to be Swayze's father in "Road House." In reality, he is 44; Swayze is 36.

"I feel lucky to get in it," Elliott says. "No matter how old a guy I am (he plays), I love being referred to as an old man.

"Well, I'm not an old man, so ... but I can grow my beard my beard is as gray as my hair and be old."

"The old" Elliott enjoyed working with "the young" Swayze on "Road House."

"I love Patrick," says Elliott. "On some levels, I really love this kid. I have a lot of respect for him as an actor, because I see him in this position that he's finding himself in (sudden popularity and fame).

"I don't think he's particularly comfortable in that position. He's scared by it. He's intimidated by it. I think that's refreshing in this day and age.

"I think Swayze's a good actor. There is no doubt in my mind that he's a real human being. I think that quality comes across in his work.

I don't think physically there is any other actor that could have done what he did, shooting this picture.

"Maybe Arnold (Schwarzenegger). Yeah, but Arnold ain't gonna move like this kid. I don't think (Sylvester) Stallone could move like him.

"This kid is a different animal. This kid's a dancer.

"He's graceful. Those guys aren't graceful."

Now, about that scene that was cut from "Road House" ...

"It was out of another movie," Elliott says. "The first cut of this movie was three hours and 20 minutes long. Everbody suffered ... in the cut.

"That's OK. I'm a big boy, although on some level you can say, yaaah, why ... but you can't take it personally.

"You've got to be objective about it and know it (that particular cut) was out of another movie, because it was.

"This thing flies along at such a pace, to sit down and have this heart-to-heart conversation between two actors (Swayze and Elliott) ... all those guys who are 18 to 24 years old are going to be out of the theater ... or throwing things at that point.

"He (Garrett) ribbed Patrick (Dalton) he called him a fighting philosopher in this scene that got dumped.

"In fact, I thik Garrett has evolved this kind of philosophy of his own whether it is based upon cynicism or whatever you want to call it.

He's learned that this game that they're in this thing that they do for a living is . . ., founded upon not much and that there is in fact something else that is worth pursuing or at least worth searching for.

That's really what was imparted in that scene.

"It was backstory about Garrett's character and the relationships between Swayze and ... when Garrett was on top. There's some interesting stuff.

"As a whole, there was a lot of slashing down of this relationship with this kid that he loved ..."

Elliott has always spoken his mind. When he made his breakthrough film in 1976 "Lifeguard" he was outspoken about the problems he had with the way it was being publicized.

In "Road House," he appears in a violent film yet Elliott despises violence. He explains: "Do I sound less outspoken (now)?" he asks. "I think I probably get myself into as much trouble as I always did. I don't do it for effect. I think I probably do it out of stupidity or I do it out of a desire to be honest with the game but not try to fool somebody.

"I expend so much energy just doing what I do in that I have an acting career and that I have a family _I don't want to waste time" hoping they will hire him for the next job.

"Hopefully, on some level, maybe that will catch up to me. Now I find people wanting to work with me.

"People don't like to hear the truth, always, particularly if it's about them."

And the truth is: Don't take "Road House" too seriously, and please don't compare it to a modern-day Western.

"The obvious comparisons are there to be drawn," says Elliott. "I hadn't really thought about it as such. I think I have too much of a feel for Westerns to compare this to the Westerns.

"I've got too much affinity for Westerns to say this is a modern-day Western. I don't totally agree with that.

"I've found after 21 years in this game (acting) that the lack of involvement with a major, major, major through-the-roof box-office thing (hit) has kept me from getting scripts that I'd like to get.

That's not to say that I haven't done movies ... "Mask' was probably the best thing for me in my career ... but this kind of deal: $100 million grossers. I think the whole deal today is predicated on dollars and numbers rather than any kind of artistic endeavor.

"I hope to think that there's a little bit more to it than just selling out.

"I've stood up against violence for a lot of years and then I find myself in a position they say, "Hey, let's go to New York and push this movie.' "And then I saw the movie (the finished product) last week. It's in bad taste. It's gratuitous. It's all the things that you'd like it not to be.

"If you take it seriously and I did at first, and I was overwhelmed by it, plus the fact that half of my stuff is on the (cutting room) floor including my best scene in the movie how am I going to go to New York and talk about this movie" with Joel Silver, the film's producer?

"I think it's a point of view. That isn't to say that you have to adapt a point of view where you appreciate it, because my Mom isn't going to appreciate this movie.

"If you take it any more seriously than Mad magazine, then you're in trouble. And that's kind of a roundabout justification if it's a copout, hypocritical, it's anything you want to call it.

"It's all of those things that I'd like to think I have enough integrity to not do. For that reason, it's kind of been an eye-opener, too.

"The fact is, I'm happy every time I get a job.

"It was exciting working on one of Silver's extravaganzas. In the 21 years I've been in the business, I've never worked on anything like this.

"The guy's a hands-on, hard-core producer who knows how to make movies." BIOG: NAME:

Archive ID: 388938