A quick guide to 2 Tone music

2 Tone music started in Coventry in the 1970s. Here’s a quick guide introducing the style if you haven’t heard of it before.

What is 2 Tone music?

2 Tone music was a blend of Jamaican reggae, ska, and British punk music. Jerry Dammers was an important figure in the new musical style. He started a label called 2 Tone Records in 1979 and was the lead singer and songwriter for one of the biggest bands of the 2 Tone movement: The Specials.

The Specials released their breakthrough song – Gangsters – on 2 Tone Records in 1979

The song peaked at number six in the UK singles charts and spent eight weeks in the top 40.

The Selecter were another 2 Tone band who kick-started the movement

They also released their first popular single – On My Radio – on 2 Tone Records in 1979, which peaked at number eight and spent nine weeks in the UK Top 40.

2 Tone music united people facing economic problems and racism

Social and political issues were a major feature of many of the songs. The movement brought together musicians from different ethnic backgrounds to promote a multi-racial, anti-racist perspective.

Jerry Dammer's mix of music and politics appealed to a younger audience

"He was savvy enough to know if you added socio-political lyrics to insistent beats – which ska music was – then you had a formula for something that would go down well with young people" - Pauline Black, lead singer of The Selecter.

The Specials topped the charts with two singles released in 1980 and 1981

They were the only band during the first few years of the 2 Tone movement to get to number one, releasing Too Much Too Young in 1980 and Ghost Town in 1981.

2 Tone music was known for its energetic live shows

John Mostyn, a music promoter at the time, recalls a sold-out Specials gig at Cannon Hill Park in Birmingham where thousands of extra people arrived and forced their way in. Although “chaos ensued with stage invasions”, the show had “a wonderful atmosphere”, he said.