September 19, 2023 Patch

Forged Shadows

Reduced time extension from knocks from 10s to 5s.

Extra damage to the shroud will bleedthrough to Revenant if it breaks.

Shadow Pounce

Slightly increased pounce angle compensation when looking at the ground.

August 30, 2023 Patch

Revenant can no longer damage his Forged Shadows with his own melee but will take damage from his own ordnance

August 08, 2023 Patch

Reworked:

Class changed to Skirmisher.

New passive ability: Assassin's Instinct.

New tactical ability: Shadow Pounce.

New ultimate ability: Forged Shadows.

Updated Revenant's Legend select animation and healing animation.

August 09, 2022 Patch

Death Totem will now show a placement preview when activated instead of placing immediately.

September 14, 2021 Patch

Death Totem:

Added some visual effects to increase visibility for when a totem is placed nearby.

August 03, 2021 Patch

Death Totem:

Added a visual and audio cue when Death Totem protection is about to end which can be seen/heard by other players.

Added a brief slow after being recalled.

July 19, 2021 Patch

Fixed an issue where having Revenant's Heirloom equipped would cause slides to not travel very far while healing.

June 29, 2021 Patch

Slightly decreased hitbox size.

Stalker: Significantly increased climb height.

Silence: Duration decreased from 20 seconds to 15 seconds.

Death Totem: Duration reduced by 5 seconds.

March 09, 2021 Patch

Silence: Now disables Mirage’s cloaked revive/respawn as well as Octane’s Swift Mend.

January 05, 2021 Patch

Death Totem:

Fixed an issue causing other players to teleport with Revenant if they punch Revenant when he has very little health.

Fixed an issue that didn’t allow Revenant to deploy the totem while on the Trident.

November 04, 2020 Patch

Death Totem: Fixed an issue with Revenant getting pushed into geometry when his totem was deployed in tight spaces.

October 06, 2020 Patch

Fixed an issue with the HUD of the Replicator staying on the screen when the totem effect wears off.

August 18, 2020 Patch

Death Totem:

For 2 seconds after being recalled by the totem, players cannot use Wraith’s Dimensional Rift.

Fixed an issue with enemies getting teleported with Revenant when they melee him before he teleports back to the totem.

June 30, 2020 Patch

Death Totem: Fixed an issue where if death protection wears off during a revive, it cancels the revive.

June 23, 2020 Patch

Silence:

Will now cancel:

Pathfinder mid-grapple

Wraith mid- Into the Void attempt (before it activates).

Will now prevent:

Mirage cloaked revive and decoy control activation.

Lifeline Combat Revive.

Fixed an issue with the audio of the ability cutting off halfway through its playback.

Death Totem:

Range removed.

Fixed an issue with the totem not being rendered from over 200 meters.

New health bar for when players are in Death Protection.

May 12, 2020 Patch

Death Totem: Fixed an issue with it being visible through smoke or gas.

Adjusted hitbox for his crouch area.

April 07, 2020 Patch

Silence:

Increased duration of status effect from 10 seconds to 20 seconds.

Now disables Gibraltar’s Gun Shield.

Increased the duration of area of effect from 5 seconds to 10 seconds.

Now has 2 charges.

Fixed bug where sometimes players would lose aim assist after being hit with the ability.

Death Totem:

Characters are now respawned with 50 health (or whatever health they had when they activated it, if lower) instead of 1.

Fixed bug for cases when Revenant places the totem on the train, a player is respawned to it while on the train, and the train is moving, the player could be respawned somewhere else on the map or even off the map.

Fixed bug for cases where players that were under Revenant’s Death Protection could still be healed by Lifeline’s D.O.C. Heal Drone and Wattson’s Interception Pylon.

Removed Low Profile.

Fixed issue where sometimes players could hear and in rare cases, be hit by Revenant’s abilities while in the Firing Range when he’s not there.

March 03, 2020 Patch

Silence: Fixed getting assist credit when placing the ability on a player who is downed.

Death Totem:

For cases where sometimes the totem could be destroyed or disabled when placed too close to some geometry, it will now be refunded back to the player at full charge when this happens.

Fixed a bug where if players were respawned while spectating someone under Revenant's death protection, they would return in that state permanently and unable to use healing items.

February 04, 2020 Patch

Introduced.