Mrs. Peggy Delores Carver, 91, Jefferson City, passed away Thursday, July 18, 2024 at Oak Tree Villa. She was born Friday, July 22, 1932 in Enon, Missouri, a daughter of the late Henry and Myrtle (Amos) Shipman.

Peggy work at few factories in Oregon and Missouri like International Shoe Factory in Jefferson City. Her favorite job was babysitting her grandchildren and great grandchildren.

Peggy loved word find puzzles. She loved her family and spending time with family and friends doing BBQ and other functions. She was a big supporter of the Special Olympics. She also enjoyed camping, fishing and hunting.

Peggy will be remembered for her smile, kindness, and looking out for others. Her children, grandchildren and great grandchildren were spoiled and loved by her.

She is survived by three daughters: Rita Kay Hicks of Eldon, MO., Jacqueline Lynn Ridenhour (Robert) of Eugene, MO., Jill Ann Carver of Jefferson City, MO.; eleven grandchildren: Scott Carver, Michael Carver (Christina), Athenda Carver, Christina Scapanski , Crystal Mckinnon (Jacob), Darren Hicks, Joshua Carver, James Ridenhour, Jessica Dechiara (Shane), Holly Hanesack and Nathanial Carver; eighteen great-grandchildren: Jay Carver (Kelly), Cody Carver (Savannah), Trisha M

Jordan, Julia Mckinnon, Carma Reed, Jack Carver, Sadie Mckinnon, Kaitlyn Scapanski, McKenzie Scapanski, Samantha Carver, Lily Ridenhour, Skyla Carver, Isabella Dechiara, Jasmine Dechiara, Garrett Scapanski, Michael Carver, Eleanor Carver, and Claire Carver.

Peggy was preceded in death: by her husband: James Thomas Carver Jr.; daughter: Ruth Ann Carver; sons: James Lee Carver and Gerald Ray Carver; son in law: Juewll Hicks; Jack Pearson; parents: Henry and Myrtle (Amos) Shipman; brothers: James Shipman, Roy Shipman. Wayne Shipman, and Roger Shipman; sisters: Mae Vaughn, Pauline Hoelsher, Bonnie Giboney and Nelda Neustzler.

A Celebration of Peggy’s Life along with graveside services will be announced at a later date.

Expressions of sympathy may be made to the family in care of the funeral home.