Consuelo Bautista

Degree in Advertising at the University of Bogotá, Colombia, Jorge Tadeo Lozano. She lives in Barcelona, Spain, where she works as an independent photographer. She has carried out projects in Cuba, Colombia, Israel, Montenegro, Galicia, Barcelona, ​​Morocco, Senegal, Mexico, the United States and Canada, linked to documentary photography, having a vision of the author and published in different media, international journals and catalogs in the case of exhibitions. She has been awarded the City of Barcelona 2007 Visual Arts prize for the project "A Los Invisibles". She is a founding member of the association CENTRO DE FOTOGRAFIA DOCUMENTAL DE BARCELONA lafotobcn. She has published as a photojournalist in different media including the Món, Ajoblanco, La Vanguardia, El Periodico, and the newspaper El País.

Marielle Gaudry

News correspondent for regional press and then cinema journalist until 2003, now she works on the web on local political tasks in the field of communication and marketing. Since 2008, she is also Marketing and Communication manager at AlloCiné, second mondial platform for cinema and TV series promotion, where she works mainly on partnerships, festivals and event organisation. She also runs a club of cinema bloggers and influencers (Club 300), for whom she selects and programmes films, screened in preview every month. This club is a quality trademark for AlloCiné. Marielle also writes about music, culinary arts, interior design, lifestyle and photography.

Nicola Guaglianone

Educated at Leo Benvenuti's school, in 1999 he moves to Los Angeles, where he attended seminars on screenplay and narrative structure. Back in Italy, he begins to collaborate with the most important TV production companies: Endemol, Magnolia, Palomar, Publispei. In 2004 he wrote script and screenplay of the short film "Il produttore", this is the beginning of the partnership with the director Gabriele Mainetti. Together they made the short films "Basette" (finalist at David di Donatello 2009) and Tiger Boy (winner of Nastro d'Argento 2013, finalist at David di Donatello 2012, it was included in the shortlist at Oscar 2014 but did not obtain the nomination). In 2015 he writes (together with Menotti) the screenplay of his first feature film ("They Call Me Jeeg"), that obtains good audience and critical success and wins seven David di Donatello: Guaglianone obtains a nomination for the best screenplay, his third one after the one obtained the previous year for the short film "Due piedi sinistri", that later won the Globo d'Oro award. In 2017 he is among the screenwriters of the comedy "L'ora legale" with the Italian comedians Ficarra and Picone. In the same year he wins the David di Donatello for the script and screenplay of the feature film "Indivisibili", directed by Edoardo De Angelis and presented in preview at Venice Film Festival (Giornate degli Autori). In the same year he writes, together with Menotti and Carlo Verdone, script and screenplay of "Benedetta Follia", directed by Carlo Verdone. With Luca Miniero, he writes script and screenplay of "Sono Tornato", produced by Indiana Production. He also works on script and screenplay of two episodes of the series "Suburra".

Michael Nouri

Michael Nouri graduated at the Film Academy Baden-Wuerttemberg as Creative Producer. Since then he has worked as an Executive Producer with over 20 years experience in the commercials and film industry. After running one of the top ten German production companies in the nineties, he joined Stillking Films in 2005 as the International EP, producing commercials on all continents. In 2013 Michael Nouri moved to Spain as the Exec. Producer at Palma Pictures on Mallorca and opened his production company NOURI Films in Barcelona beginning 2018. As the Executive Producer he provided production services for many international production companies such as Iconoclast - Stink Films - The Sweet Shop - Rattling Stick - Bacon … and worked with Directors including: Joel Schumacher - Wim Wenders - Martin Werner - Adam Berg - Mark Albiston - James Gray - Louis Leterrier and many more partners and friends.

Mario Piredda

Sardinian director, he has lived in Bologna since 1999. He graduated at DAMS, specialising in Cinema. In 2005 he shot his first short film "Il Suono Della Miniera", produced by the Regional Ethnographic Institute of Sardinia. His second work, "Io sono qui", produced by Elenfant Film, received a nomination at David di Donatello in 2011, won over 70 awards and were in the official selection in many international film festivals. In 2011 he shoots in Havana (Cuba) “Los aviones que se caen”, which has won many international awards. In 2015 he shoots "Homeward", documentary on the situation of migrants from Cambodia to Thailand. His last short film "A casa mia", produced by Articolture, won the David di Donatello in 2017. He is now working on his first feature film.

Daniele Lucca

Born in Turin in 1963, radio speaker since 1978, he started his career of theatre actor and author in 1986. Cultural worker, art consultant, radio and TV anchorman, music producer and… Slowfood gourmand. Cosmopolitan by definition, he has lived and worked in theatres, cinema, Tv and radio around U.S.A., Spain, France and Italy. He is creative consultant, artistic director, anchorman of big events for brands and public institutions. He is historic associate of Club Tenco (Sanremo). "Extremist" cinephile, he has always collaborated with SKEPTO. Since 2015 he has been creator and artistic director of the first European web-radio dedicated to the wine: La Voce del Vino/The Wine Voice.

Chiara Pellegrini

After the degree in Political Science, she decides to follow one of her greatest passions and enrols in a Fim Production Master in Turin. Since then, she starts to work for several festivals and, since 2016, she has directed the Fish&Chips Film Festival, international festival of erotic and sexual cinema.

Roberta Pozza

Born in Biella (Italy) in 1985, she graduates at Dams of Turin in 2011, and the following year she obtains the Master for Analysts in Cinema and TV Production and Cross Media Communication. She worked as an intern at the National Cinema Museum of Turin. She collaborates with the Piemonte Movie Association, organising contests and curating the section “Spazio Piemonte” of Piemonte Movie gLocal Film Festival. Since 2017 she has curated the short film section at Fish&Chips Film Festival.