Recently, while searching for newspaper photos of Portland, I stumbled across a photo of my 1st cousin 4 x removed, Amelia Harman, with four of her descendants published in the Weekly Times in 1952. Standing back left is Amelia’s daughter, Elsie May Harman. Elsie married Herbert Skipworth in 1909 at Heywood. Back right is Elsie’s daughter Doris Eveline Skipworth. Doris married Samuel Porter in 1929. Sitting directly in front of her is Doris’ daughter and her daughter Lynette Wilmot.

I’ve previously posted a photo I found of Amelia photographed with her granddaughter, great-granddaughter, and great-great-granddaughter. You can read more about that photo in the post Matter of Relativity.

Amelia was the eldest daughter of Jonathan Harman and Elizabeth Oliver of Byaduk. She died in 1956 at Portland, aged ninety-one. Her husband Chris Bell predeceased her by twenty-seven years.

One of the features of Western District Families is Hamilton’s WW1 now with sixty-six profiles of enlisted men with Hamilton links.

I’ve set a target, possibly an over ambitious one, of 100 profiles by Anzac Day but I’ll give it a go. There are some good stories about Hamilton nurses that I would like to share before 25 April 2016 too. But first something I’ve noticed…well it’s one of many things I’ve observed during the course of my research, but let’s start with memorials…well, one of the things I’ve noticed about memorials…

If you visit the Hamilton War Memorial and look at the names, you could be excused for thinking those men listed lived in Hamilton for a significant part of their lives or, at the very least, were born there. But that’s not the case, they were from all over with a few men having only a fleeting connection with Hamilton.

Some of the men had fathers who moved often with work. Clifford Williams, who was unlikely to have even visited Hamilton, was a son of a teacher while William Thompson was the son of a railway worker who often moved his family. Both are on the Hamilton War Memorial (below). Others went to Hamilton as adults for work and were only there a short time before enlisting, such as Edwin Smith who arrived in Hamilton around 1913 to work at the Union Bank. Reginald Briant was born in Hampshire, England and spent a few years in Melbourne before working for the Hamilton Electric Supply Company before his enlistment.

When searching for a family member on memorials and honour boards, clues from Electoral Rolls, Trove newspapers and the solider’s Attestation papers can help you find them. Even if your soldier’s family just “passed through” a particular town, it’s worth following up. Soldiers were often memorialised in several towns. As well as the Hamilton War Memorial, Clifford Williams and Percy Osborne had trees planted along Bacchus Marsh’s Avenue Honour. And don’t overlook workplaces and churches. Percy Osborne has a memorial window at Hamilton’s Christ Church Cathedral (below) and is on the Union Bank Honour Roll in Melbourne.

If you are wondering if Hamilton commemorated your WW1 soldier’s service, all Hamilton’s outdoor WW1 War Memorials including names are at Hamilton’s WW1. Eventually, I will add Hamilton’s honour boards. The Victorian War Heritage Inventory is a useful resource for locating memorials across Victoria. You can search by the name or a place.

A quick reminder…to delve into the daily events of Hamilton 100 years ago, “like” the Hamilton WW1 Facebook page. Along with new profiles, six days a week I post an article from the Hamilton Spectator from 100 years before. It’s been interesting to read how Hamilton, just like other towns, continued on while so many were away fighting and how the subject of war managed to creep into most aspects of daily life.

The names of the sixty-six soldiers profiled at Hamilton’s WW1 are below. I’ve included their place of birth and other towns they had connections to. Most never returned to Australia. For some of those who did, life was never the same. Lest We Forget.

AUSTIN, Glenister Burton Hamilton

AUSTIN, William John Hamilton, Adelaide

BARR, Gordon Hotspur, Strathkellar, Warrnambool

BRAKE, William Horsham, Hamilton, Mont Albert

BRIANT, Reginald Stuart Hampshire (ENG), East Melbourne, Hamilton.

BURGESS, Ebenezer Benalla, Mildura, Numurkah, Wonthaggi, Stratford

CAMERON, Archibald Douglas Branxholme, Hamilton

CAMERON, Sidney Joseph Hamilton

CAMERON, Thomas Waddell Port Fairy, Hamilton, Kyabram

COULTER, Robert James Hamilton

DAVIES, Albert Hamilton

DAVIES, Stanley Walton Hamilton, Lubeck

DOUGLAS, Claude Campbell Telford Euroa, Hamilton

DUNN, Daniel Joseph Heidelberg, Carlton

ELDER, Frank Reginald Charlton, Jurek, Hamilton

FENTON, John Wilfred Hamilton

FOLEY, Cornelius Thomas Coleraine, Hamilton

GIBSON. Sydney Walter Moe, Casterton, Hamilton, Bendigo

HARRIS, Leslie Duncan Fremantle (WA), Hamilton, Coleraine

HENTY, Edward Ellis Portland, Hamilton

HERILHY, George Joseph David Balmoral, Hamilton

HERRMANN, Bernard Hamilton, Hochkirch (Tarrington)

HIND, William Arthur Mooroopna, Hamilton, Heyfield

ILES, Cyril Thomas Brackley Hamilton, Windsor

JAFFRAY, Alfred John Hamilton

KINGHORN, Walter Rodney Byaduk

KIRKWOOD, Willliam John Clyde Hamilton, Colac, Port Fairy

KNIGHT, James Alfred Hamilton, Malvern

LANCE, George Basil Casterton, Hamilton

LEWIS, Arthur Harold Hamilton, St. Arnaud, Heywood

LIEBE, Sydney August Hamilton

LINDSAY, Charles Henry Heywood, Ballarat, Wallacedale, Hamilton

McPHEE, Norman Edward Hamilton

MORISON, John Archibald McFarlane Hamilton, Maroona

MULLANE, Leslie Alexander Branxholme, Wallacedale, Hamilton

NIDDRIE, Stanley Roy Hamilton

NIVEN, William David Harrow, Merino Downs, Hamilton

NORMAN, William Leslie Hamilton, Warracknabeal

OSBORNE, Percy Beaumont Bacchus Marsh, Maryborough, Hamilton, Ballarat

PORTER, George Richard Hamilton

PORTER, Norman Leslie James Hamilton, Wallacedale, Broken Hill, Tasmania

RHOOK, Archibald Alfred Tyrendarra, Hamilton

RHOOK, Henry Joseph William Hamilton, Beaufort

RICHIE, George Katunga, Willaura, Hamilton

RIGBY, Frederick Roland Angus Coleraine, Hamilton

SALTER, Herbert Ernest Naracoorte, Dunkeld, Hamilton

SCOTT, Alexander William Portland, Hamilton, Donald

SHARROCK, Charles Terang, Mt. Napier, Penshurst

SHAW, Ivan Thomas Coleraine, Hamilton

SHEEHAN, Albert Edward Macarthur, Hamilton

SMITH, Edwin Richardson Mooroopna, Shepparton, Morwell, Kyabram, Hamilton

STAGOLL, Robert Leslie Hamilton

STEVENSON, Alexander John Hamilton, Portland

STEVENSON, Edgar Richmond Hamilton, Portland

STEWART, Charles Herbert Byaduk, Hamilton, Western Australia

THOMPSON, William Norton Horsham, Ararat, Hamilton, Hopetoun

TREDREA, Francis Stanley Hamilton, Stawell

TRIGGER, Samuel Wilfred Macarthur, Hamilton, Murray Bridge (SA)

UNDERWOOD, Arthur Bell Percy Dunkeld, Bendigo, Hamilton

WATERS, William Henry Edenhope, Hamilton

WESTGARTH, Horace Leonard Hamilton

WHITE, John Francis Raymond Hamilton, Cosgrave

WILLIAMS, Clifford Davis Tarnagulla, Bacchus Marsh, Melbourne

WILLIAMS, Lancelot Hamilton Hamilton

WOMERSLEY. Edgar Dunkeld

YOUNG, Clarence Everard Hamilton

**Postscript – Since writing this post, I have added a further forty stories of Hamilton’s enlisted men. You can read them at Hamilton’s WW1

History House in Portland is the place to go to search for your ancestors who lived or arrived in the harbour town. Located in the former Portland Town Hall, History House offers research facilities and a small museum.

The museum has many reminders of Portland’s early history, in particular, the Henty family.

It is not easy taking a photo of a long plough in a narrow room with a fairly ordinary camera, but I had to give it a go as this in the one and only Henty plough. While it is famous for it being the first plough used in Victoria, its journey since those early days is interesting.

Maybe this picture does the plough more justice than my own.

This article from the Portland Guardian of 18 November 1935 described what happened to the plough after it left the Henty’s possession

Hugh Lennon, who had the plough on display at his factory in Spotswood, was the manufacturer of the Lennon plough. This was the plough of choice for ggg grandfather James Harman in local ploughing matches. It was also the plough of choice for the Kelly gang when making armour. The plough eventually returned to Portland in 1970.

The is a model of the house occupied by Joseph Henry Porter and his wife, Sarah Herbertson, in Gawler Street, Portland. Joseph constructed the model and Sarah furnished it. I like the detail, even down to pickets missing off the fence. Both Joseph and Sarah are part of the Western District Families Pioneer Obituary Index. Joseph’s obituary mentioned his fine craftmanship.

While this isn’t the best photo, I had to share it. It depicts the meeting of Major Thomas Mitchell and the Henty brothers, a significant time in the history of the Western District. You can read more about this chance meeting in the post “Major Mitchell Reaches Portland Bay”.

Mary McKillop spent some time in Portland and an exhibit commemorates this, complete with the spires from the original Roman Catholic church in Portland.

The Portland Rocket Shed is next to History House. The shed was built in 1886 by George Sedgewick who was the gg grandfather of Ann, a follower of this blog. Fully restored, the shed has a display inside which includes a rocket launcher used to fire ropes to boats in distress.

For more photos, better than my own, check out ABC South West Victoria’s report on History House’s renovation in 2010 http://www.abc.net.au/local/stories/2010/02/17/2822431.htm. There was also a report at the time of Mary MacKillop’s canonization http://www.abc.net.au/local/stories/2010/10/12/3035824.htm