Eriq Ebouaney was born in Angers (Maine & Loire) to Cameroonian parents. After studying international business, he embarked on a career in theatre and film. He made his debut at La Baignoire and then worked on the texts of Euripides, Tennessee Williams and Koltès. He has appeared in private theatre alongside Michel Galabru in La poule aux œufs d’or and Bernard Tapie in Vol au-dessus d’un nid de coucou, and more recently in Alexis Michalik’s play Edmond. But it was in his role for the cinema as a «Bad Guy» in Brian de Palma’s Femme Fatale and the lead role in Raoul Peck’s Lumumba that made him famous to the general public. Since then, he has worked with internationally renowned actors and directors including Gérard Depardieu, Jean Dujardin, Jean Reno, Benoit Magimel, Alexandra Lamy, Sandrine Bonnaire, Orlando Bloom, Liam Neeson, John Malkovich, Antonio Banderas, Ridley Scott, Brian de Palma, Park ChanWook, Olivier Assayas, Jean-Jacques Annaud.

Lucas Belvaux was born in 1961 in Belgium (Namur). In 1979, he moved to Paris to become an actor. One year later, he played the lead role in Yves Boisset’s film Allons Z’enfants, which launched his acting career. In the following ten years, he will be given the opportunity to work with Jacques Rivette (Hurlevent), Claude Chabrol (Le Poulet au Vinaigre, Madame Bovary), Claude Goretta (La Mort de Mario Ricci), Olivier Assayas (Désordre), Marco Ferreri (Le Banquet), among others. In 1991, he directed his first feature film, Parfois Trop d’Amour, but recognition as a filmmaker only comes five years later with the movie Pour Rire!. In 2003, he directed Un Couple Épatant, Cavale, Après la Vie, a trilogy that won the Louis Delluc Prize. In 2006, La Raison du Plus Faible, with Natacha Régnier and Éric Caravaca, represented Belgium at the Cannes Film Festival. Rapt, 38 Témoins and Pas son Genre followed, with Émilie Dequenne and Loïc Corbery, which won 3 Magritte. His latest film, Chez Nous, with Emilie Dequenne, André Dussollier and Guillaume Gouix was released in February 2017. He has also directed 4 films for the television.

Diane Rouxel grew up in Haute-Savoie (France) and then studied art. In 2014, she is discovered by Larry Clark at 18 in the movie The Smell of us. One year later, it’s the movie La Tête haute by Emmanuelle Bercot’s that launched her career. In 2017, she is one of Bertrand Mandico’s five Wild Boys. This year, she confirmed her talent in the movies Mes Provinciales by Jean-Paul Civeyrac, Volontaire by Hélène Fillières and Marche ou crève by Tatiana-Margaux Bonhomme, where she played the lead roles.

Isild Le Besco began her film career at the age of 13 in the short film La Puce d’Emmanuelle Bercot. The director calls upon her again for others of her swimming tours (Les Vacances, Quelqu’un vous aime, Le Choix d’Elodie, Backstage). In 2000, she was the young Émilie de Lancris in Benoît Jacquot’s Sade, of which she became one of the favourite actresses; Isild was featured in À tout de suite, Au fond des bois and in L’Intouchable for which she won the prize for best young actress at the Venice Mostra in 2006. Appointed twice to the Césars as Best Feminine Espoir, the actress is also a scriptwriter and director (Demi-tarif, Charly, Bas-fonds, La Belle occasion), author (Sang d’encre, S’aimer quand même) and illustrator.

Denis Côté (1973) (New Brunswick, Canada) founded nihilproductions in the nineties and shoots fifteen short films. He was a journalist and movie critic before making his first feature film Les états nordiques in 2005. In 2007 his second feature Nos vies privées makes the festival circuit. Carcasses (2009) is presented at the Director’s Fortnight at Cannes while Curling, his fifth feature wins honors at the Locarno Film Festival in 2010. Vic+Flo on vu un ours (2013) wins a Silver Bear at Berlin for its innovation. Denis Côté’s uncommon and original films have been screened at over 400 film events as well as having been featured in over twenty retrospectives around the world.

Born in Beirut, Danielle Arbid arrived in France in 1987 to study literature and journalism. She has been directing films since 1997. Selected by numerous festivals around the world (Cannes, New York film festival, San Francisco, Locarno, Pusan, Tokyo, etc.), her fictions and documentaries have received dozens of awards including Leopard d’Or video (Conversations de salon), Leopard d’Argent video and the Albert Londres prize (Seule avec la guerre). Her two feature films, Dans les champs de bataille and Un homme perdu were selected for the Directors’ Fortnight at the Cannes Film Festival in 2004 and 2007. Peur de rien (2016), her third feature fiction film, won, among other awards, the Académie Lumière prize from the foreign press. Many retrospectives have been organized around her films in France and in Europe. Always attracted by new forms and multidisciplinary experiences, Danielle Arbid also is an occasional actress (Les Apaches, Réparer les vivants); photographer and co-founder of the festival Né à Beyrouth. Danielle Arbid was the subject of a 2017 portrait by Yannick Casanova for the «Cinema of Our Time» collection.

Revealed by a Petit Rail d'or in Cannes thanks to Alice and Me, delicious short film with three Jewish grannies in a car on their way to the seaside,

Micha Wald likes to travel. From Horse Thieves, a Cossack ride that was also selected in Cannes, to Les Folles Aventures de Simon Konianski, an atypical road movie, the Belgian director graduate of INSAS does not stay still. Hower, he managed to make a small transit to Brussels, the time to join the jury of the European competition.

Bruno Deloye, director of the CINE+ Classic, Club and Famiz channels at Canal Plus Group launched the first Pay per view channel in France in 1991. Within MCM-Euromusique, he created Muzzik, the first TV channel dedicated to the Classical and Jazz music, where he is the station and programme director. In 2000, he joined Multhématiques (Canal Plus Group), as director of Cinéclassic in France, Italy and Spain, before setting up the new thematic offer Ciné + Club, Classic dedicated to auteur cinema and patrimony, and Famiz in September 2002, of which he is also director. Member of the CNC Cinematographic Heritage Commission, he has been a jury member at various festivals around the world. Within Ciné + he has participated for 10 years in the co-production of more than 800 documentaries on cinema.

Elise Jalladeau produced and co-produced the first films of a generation of award-winning authors at international festivals: Ildiko Enyedi, Jia Zhang Ke, Jérôme Bonnell, Rodrigo Moreno, Martin Rejtman, Jose Luis Torres Leiva, Alejandro Fernandez, Pablo Aguero and others... In 2000, she created the Workshops Produire au Sud, which trained a generation of leading international producers. Between 2010 and 2017, she is the leader of EAVE's Asia/Europe Workshops ‘Ties That Bind ‘. Since 2010, she lives in Greece. Audiovisual attaché at the French Institute of Athens between 2010 and 2015, she is a member of the board of directors of the Greek Film Center. She is currently the General Director of the Thessaloniki Film Festival, which includes the Thessaloniki Int'l Film Festival, the Thessaloniki Documentary Film Festival, 4 Europa Cinéma labelled screens and the Thessaloniki Film Museum.