The ANC and the DA are happy with the results of the municipal by-elections, in which they retained most of their wards.

"We want to thank all those that reaffirmed their confidence in the ANC because of its commitment to change and transformation. The ANC will intensify its efforts to regain its lost ground in the Western Cape," African National Congress spokesman Jackson Mthembu said on Thursday.

The Gauteng Democratic Alliance said an increase in support in one of its wards proved it had delivered to its supporters.

"This is an indication that the DA is growing across all parts of Gauteng and greater South Africa," provincial leader John Moodey said.

The by-elections were held on Wednesday in 15 vacant wards in the Eastern Cape, Gauteng, KwaZulu-Natal, Limpopo, Mpumalanga, North West, Northern Cape and Western Cape.

Only two wards were not retained. The first was Ward 33 in North West, where an independent candidate took the seat from the ANC.

The second was in Matzikama (Vredendal) in the Western Cape, where the ANC took Ward Two from the Democratic Alliance.

Mthembu said the Western Cape victory proved the party's base was growing in the province.

In KwaZulu-Natal, Ward Four in the Hibiscus Coast (Port Shepstone) municipality, Wards One and Eight in Umtshezi (Estcourt), and Ward 14 in Nqutu were retained by the ANC. The provincial ANC said it was "not surprised" by the results.

"The large number of people who voted for the ANC during the by-elections on Wednesday clearly shows that the ANC remains the only movement that carries the interests of all South Africans," it said.

"The ANC has full confidence in the four comrades who have been elected and we have no doubt that they will continue spearheading service delivery in their wards."

In Gauteng the DA retained Ward 28 in the Mogale municipality, Ward 10 in Randfontein and Ward 58 in the City of Johannesburg. The Tshwane metro's Ward eight was retained by the ANC.

Ward 58 was previously held by DA councillor Zaytoon Waja, who resigned, citing difficulties with the ANC in the area.

The area consists of Fordsburg, Mayfair, Mayfair West, Crown North, Homestead Park, Langlaagte, Pageview, Vrededorp, Jan Hofmeyer, Vredepark, Burgersdorp, and Amalgam.

The ANC said earlier in the week that its previous loss in the ward was not because of the strength of the DA, but because it lacked focus on polling day.

Moodey said in Ward Eight in Tshwane, the DA's support grew from four percent in 2011 to 18.3 percent in the by-election.

"When the DA is elected to provincial government in 2014, we will bring delivery and a better life for all the people of this province," he said.

In the Eastern Cape, Ward 21 in Intsika Yethu (Cofimvaba) and Ward nine in the Aganang municipality Limpopo, and Ward 10 in Ga-Segonyana (Kuruman) in the Northern Cape were retained by the ANC.

In Mpumalanga, the ANC retained Ward four in Mkhondo (Piet Retief) and Ward one in Mbombela (Nelspruit).