Alumni

Welcome to the Sigma Pi UCLA Fraternity's website, where we proudly celebrate a century of excellence and brotherhood. Throughout our rich history, we have been privileged to nurture and support an extraordinary community of alumni who have left an indelible mark on our community and the world. Our successful alumni, spanning over 100 years, have excelled in various fields, including business, technology, academia, arts, and public service. Their achievements stand as a testament to the values and principles instilled within our fraternity. From pioneering entrepreneurs and innovative leaders to renowned scholars and dedicated philanthropists, our alumni continue to inspire and empower the next generation of Sigma Pi brothers. As we look back on our storied past, we recognize that our alumni's enduring contributions have truly shaped our fraternity's legacy, and we eagerly anticipate the incredible achievements of those who follow in their footsteps. We invite you to explore the remarkable stories of our accomplished alumni and celebrate the profound impact they have had on society and the world.

Check out our alumni websites:

https://sigmapibruins.com/

​

https://uclasigmapi.com/

​

Notable Alumni

William R Peers

Lt. General, US Army. Investigator, US Army War Crimes Investigator, presiding over the Peers Commission investigation into the My Lai massacre and other similar crimes during the Vietnam War.; Author of The My Lai Incident

Member of UCLA's football, rugby, and wrestling teams

Former President of the Fraternity

Burke Farrah

Deputy Chief of Police of the city of Fresno

Trae Smith

Former UCLA Football Player, Featured in Forbes Magazine, Founder of PowerHaus Sports Agency

Elvin "Ducky" Drake

Longtime track and field coach at UCLA and coached two Bruins to the gold and silver medals at the 1960 Rome Olympics:

Bob Seamen

Former UCLA Track athlete in the 50s, one of the early Americans to break the 4:00 mile, was the answer to a Los Angeles Times trivia question in 2005.

Captain of UCLA football's 1953 Pacific Coast Conference champion team, head coach at UNM and held positions at CU and OU, later worked for the NFL San Diego Chargers as director of pro personnel from 1987-1997

Rudy Feldman

For 40 years, Briggs Hunt served UCLA as a student, faculty member, full professor, and internationally famous wrestling coach (he was the Bruins' coach for almost 30 years). A football quarterback and wrestling champion at UCLA in the 1930s, Hunt was a colonel in the army during World War II. He was an Olympic Games wrestling judge at Melbourne, Australia, in 1956, and in 1960, he was the U.S. Olympic Greco-Roman head coach in Rome. Hunt wrote four books on wrestling, including the only American book on Greco-Roman wrestling. All four books are considered classics in their field.

Inducted into the UCLA Athletic Hall of Fame in 1991.

Briggs Hunt

James Randal (Jim) Ross

Great-grandson of Jesse James, Orange County superior court judge for many years

An eminent entrepreneur and philanthropist, John E. Parker (UCLA ’50) has made remarkable contributions to the business world, his alma mater and the community. He has served as president of Parker Industries, Inc. since 1959, managing various media, real estate and financial interests. His most successful entrepreneurial ventures include several real estate holdings throughout southern California and ownership of Parker Broadcasting (KyXy 96.5 FM, San Diego), United Television Broadcasting (Los Angeles), Torrance Nissan, Classic Imports (Modesto) and Easy Rest, Inc. Parker also founded Parker Advertising, one of the largest advertising agencies in the West

His subsequent contributions to The Anderson School and UCLA have been significant. He founded the John E. Parker Career Management Center in 1993 and has served on The Anderson School’s Board of Visitors and the UCLA Foundation’s Board of Councilors.

John E Parker

Beckett Mahnke

Former cardiologist and doctor for the Army, former professor of Pediatrics at University of Hawaii, current Chief Medical Infomation Officer (CMIO) and Pediatric Cardiologist for Confluence Helath

Brad Layous