In 1976 singer Ian Curtis, guitarist/keyboardist Bernard Sumner, bassist Peter Hook, and drummer Stephen Morris formed the post-punk band Joy Division after attending a Sex Pistols show. Following a hugely successful debut album “Unknown Pleasures” in 1979 and a highly anticipated follow-up “Closer”, lead singer Curtis committed suicide on 18 May 1980. It was the day before the band had scheduled to embark on their first American tour, however after Curtis' death, members disbanded and looked for other outlets for their musicality. New Order was subsequently born, named after a Guardian article entitled “The People’s New Order of Kampuchea”, with Sumner taking over the role as vocalist. Stephen Morris’ girlfriend Gillian Gilbert was added to the lineup in late 1980 in time for New Order’s debut single “Ceremony”. Borrowing in large part the dark, moody allure of Joy Division’s sound, the band’s debut full-length “Movement” became the first to feature prominent use of synthesisers and became popular in the club scene.

In aid of their elusive, mysterious image, following a year-long hiatus, New Order released the landmark hit single “Blue Monday” in 1983 with its distinctive computer disk design. The record became the highest-selling 12” of all time for its combination of aesthetically-cold lyrics and drum pad produced club rhythms. The studio album “Power, Corruption and Lies” followed in 1983 highlighting the influence of techno, and notably Kraftwerk and Giorgio Moroder. Following the release New Order signed a U.S. contract with Quince Jones’ Qwest label, who issued the band’s third-full length “Low-Life” in 1985. The “Low-Life” album packaging was the first to feature photos and band info, and marked a move by New Order to connect with their fans.

The full-length “Brotherhood” arrived in 1986, followed by their U.S. breakthrough album “Substance”, a collection of singles and remixes. New Order’s most club-orientated album arrived in 1989 entitled “Technique”, which found its way on to many dance floors across the world aided by the hits “Fine Time” and “Round and Round”. In 1990 the group recorded the English World Cup Football Anthem “World in Motion”, following which the band took an extended hiatus. During this time Morris and Gilbert formed the Other Two, Hook founded the group Revenge, and Sumner collaborated with Johnny Marr and Neil Tennant in the band Electronic.

When New Order did return in 1993 they earned their biggest hit to date “Regret” taken from the album “Republic”. Following a period of uncertainty in which Sumner recorded a second Electronic LP and Hook formed the band Monaco, the band release the single “Brutal” which was later used on the soundtrack to the 2000 film “The Beach”. The studio album “Get Ready” appeared later in 2000, followed by extensive touring, and “Waiting for the Sirens’ Call” in 2005.