Just Right Products, the Haltom City-based wholly owned subsidiary of ADM Endeavors, has been granted final building permits for its new production facility in Fort Worth.

The retail and production facility will be built on a 17.5-acre site five miles away from the company’s current operation, and is projected to be operational before the end of the year.

“Permits, materials and financing are all in place so that construction of our new facility can officially begin,” ADM Endeavors CEO Marc Johnson said in a statement. “Once completed, we estimate that the facility could increase our production capacity by up to five times, significantly increasing our current maximum in-house revenue capacity of $7 million. Consolidating operations under one roof will also streamline processes and catalyze additional synergies, which could lead to gross margin and EBITDA margin expansion.”

Just Right said the facility marks a significant milestone in ADM’s expansion strategy.

Detailed plans covering roughly 80,000 square feet of retail and production space have been finalized, with construction set to start immediately, the company said.

Manufacturing hub will expand Just Right’s school uniform offering

By offering a centralized manufacturing hub and expanding the company’s school uniform retail storefront, the new facility holds strategic significance in its shift toward the more consistent school and government uniform markets, the company said. Plus, the facility’s multipurpose use could significantly augment ADM’s market presence while offering a convenient space for retail sales.

The facility also provides opportunities for diversifying Just Right’s product portfolio and securing additional contracts, the company said.

ADM Endeavors said that city of Fort Worth employees Wendy Beardslee and April Smith helped it navigate the complex, three-year permit process. Danny Christenson is the general contractor for the project.

Haltom City’s ADM Endeavors is a diversified, direct marketing and value-added manufacturing company providing customers with customized promotional products and wearables.

ADM said that since 2010, Just Right Products has been increasing its “recession-resistant” customer base, with sales topping $5.3 million for the last reported 12 months.

Get on the list.

Dallas Innovates, every day.

Sign up to keep your eye on what’s new and next in Dallas-Fort Worth, every day.