Friends star Courteney Cox has entered the beauty arena with her high-end home cleaning and scenting brand called Homecourt.

The brand is a recent venture of the actress, and she admits she created it because she loves scent and she is very similar to her Monica Geller character in that she loves to clean.

Today's top videos

Courteney Cox is also a brand ambassador for the beauty brand, Dermalogica, and she uses its Dynamic Skin Retinol Serum because it smoothes skin without any irritation (see that on sale here). But, like the rest of us, Courteney Cox has a beauty regret and it's one she has to live with for many years until it's gone.

Courteney Cox - Beauty Regret

Courteney Cox has given an in-depth interview about her skin and beauty regime to Harper's Bazaar in the US, and she talks about her loves and big beauty regret. She seems to favour a lot of natural and nourishing beauty that she uses alongside high-tech at-home LED lights to keep her skin looking happy and healthy.

She says she has hard water at her California home, and that keeping her skin moisturised is a daily challenge. On the makeup front, the star likes to keep things simple, but she has one piece she uses every day because it disguises a beauty treatment she had but now regrets.

Beauty Regret

Some years back, Courteney Cox had semi-permanent tattooing along her upper lash line to fake a more defined eye line. As many people know who had this kind of treatment (for brows mainly in Ireland) the early treatments used the wrong kind of pigments and as the brows (or eyeliner) faded away they went an unsightly shade of blue or green in the process. It's why more advanced and current treatments like emBrowdery and Phi brows are more popular now because this doesn't happen with those.

Courteney told the magazine 'I tattooed my eye a long time ago, and it’s gone except for a little blue tint, and I hate that. Back in the day, it was black and very thin, but now, I always put on a bronzy-brown liner and sort of shade it in. I’m just trying to define my eyes without looking overdone.' Eventually, that blue line will fade too, but for now, Courteney Cox will have to cover it up with makeup.

*This post may contain affiliate links