When Courteney Cox announced the launch of her fine-fragrance-inspired home and cleaning brand, Homecourt, in January 2022, it just made sense. Her longtime love for interiors and cleanliness is something that she carried into her character on "Friends," and all things considered, Cox and Monica Geller are pretty similar. They're both self-proclaimed "neat freaks," have a passion for elevating their daily lives, and know exactly what they want (and are motivated to get it). While some celebrities merely tack their name onto a brand in an effort to expand their business portfolio, Cox is actively involved in every product Homecourt produces, from start to finish.

"I'm really proud of every aspect of Homecourt," Cox tells POPSUGAR. The brand launched two years ago with three products — a dish soap, surface cleaner, and hand wash — in four key scents. Since then, it has expanded in both the home and beauty categories with a room deodorant, hand cream, candle, and slew of bonus accessories. "I just have so many different ideas of things that I want to do," Cox says. "It's my creative passion." She can't help but be highly opinionated about everything the brand creates. "I drive people crazy, but there's no fake high voice like, Oh yeah, I like it. It has to be, 'I f*cking love it,' and otherwise it can't come out."

Cox has taken every detail, from the container itself to the font of the brand's logo and the very particular color palette, into consideration. For the rounded square spray bottle of the surface cleaner, she was inspired by a bottle of olive oil on her counter while cooking. When speaking about her candle, she says, "It was so important to find the right vessel, so much so that I made it on a pottery wheel with a friend of mine — I knew exactly what I wanted; I wanted the little foot, and I wanted it to be organic." She's also passionately against labels, which is why the brand's name is so discrete on many of the products.

Aside from her brand and her acting career, her other passions include beauty and Frito-Lays (yes, like the chip) — both of which are represented in her list of must-have products. To find out more about the items Cox can't live without, keep reading.