Courteney Cox may not have very much in common with Monica Geller, one of her most iconic characters, but they definitely share a passion for a beautiful and clean home. Cox took her love of beauty and cleanliness to a new level back in January 2022 when she launched , a collection of all-natural home goods. Monica would also applaud Cox's latest news: a brand-new limited-edition Homecourt line called Mandarin Basile that smells like summer in a bottle.

In light of the new line, which is finally live on Homecourt, we chatted with Cox to learn more about what she calls "beauty products for the home." The plant-based formulas aside, Homecourt is all about the packaging. "I've never seen a cleaning product that looked like this," she says. "I hate labels— even on the nicest candles and products in the world. So when it came to my own products, I kept the brand name as small as possible because I wanted to make it sleek."

If there were one word to describe the look and feel of the products—dish soap, surface cleaner, and room deodorant, to name a few—it would be sleek. Everything (except for the candles, which are hand-poured into label-less concrete votives) comes in black containers finished with a small white font.

When she hatched the idea for the new fragrance, she had the launch date in mind: peak summer. "Basil is a summer scent. And our new fragrance smells like an herb garden with a hint of mandarin," Cox explains. Because it's a limited-edition scent, it won't be a part of the core collection, so get it before it's gone for good. Opt for the candle or kitchen trio, which includes the surface cleaner, dish soap, and hand wash.

Cox also made sure that would mesh well with the other scents in the collection, which include , , , and , Cox's signature fragrance. "All of the scents work together. We call it scent-scaping," she says. "That wasn't really the intention. It just kind of happened that way." So if you, like Cox, always have a different candle burning in every room, feel free to use all of the Homecourt ones at the same time because the scents are designed to enhance each other.

The best thing about Homecourt products is that they're "real," Cox says. "There's no extra kick that makes them feel or smell processed or chemical-y. They're all made with the actual ingredients in the name." In other words, they're all natural in the best way.