Rob Beckett has said that he narrowly missed out on a role in the blockbuster Netflix drama The Crown.

The comedian, 37, revealed he had some serious acting chops and was auditioned three times for a character in the Peter Morgan drama on Friday’s The Graham Norton Show.

The Celebs Go Dating narrator was joined by Sarah Michelle Gellar and M Night Shyamalan, as well as The Crown actor Claire Foy on the talk show, which prompted the discussion.

Graham told his guests that Rob was up for a part on the juggernaut series, to which he replied: ‘You know there was that decorator that broke into the palace and spoke to the Queen?

‘Yeah, that was me. That’s what I auditioned for. I auditioned three times. Got close, didn’t I?’

‘So if you’re interested,’ he said turning to The Sixth Sense director Night, ‘All I’m saying is you love a twist at the end; imagine if old Bobby B turned up.’

Reflecting on the audition, Rob said he wasn’t too disappointed by the outcome because it’s a ‘big show.’

‘And I thought I’d done really well,’ he continued. ‘I got some really good feedback, which I can email you,’ he joked, speaking to Night again.

Continuing to jest, he said: ‘Actually I think what they said was actually I was a little bit too muscular because the guy was a bit thinner and I’m a bit more stacked.’

‘That would have been amazing if you had gotten it,’ Graham added, before Rob jumped in, laughing: ‘Yeah it would have been, wouldn’t it?’

‘It would have been exciting for me because I’ve done lots of comedy acting and this was quite a straight role. The guy was having a bit of a breakdown.’

The final and sixth season of The Crown is currently underway, which is thought to be focusing on the late 90s and early 00s.

Earlier this week, King Charles actor Dominic West and a Geri Halliwell lookalike were spotted on set at Winchester, believed to be filming that infamous moment the Spice Girl patted the royal on the bottom.

The Graham Norton Show airs next Friday at 10.40pm on BBC One.

Got a story?

If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you.

MORE : Claire Foy found it ‘disgusting’ to watch former Crown co-star Matt Smith in House of the Dragon