Consider this.

I'm a fan of three-hour films because, generally speaking, a length of that magnitude is a promise. It's a promise straight from the director that not only is this a film that has his/her full faith, but it's a film that is worth as much time to you as it was to the filmmaker. Three hours in a chair is a bigger investment than most like to make, even a comfy leather recliner at that, but when you're watching The Godfather or Ben-hur, you make sure to hurry back before the intermission is over.

So when I read that Here Is Your Life clocked in at a sprawling 169 minutes, I figured I was close enough to that…

Here Is Your Life is another great film by Jan Troell. It’s a film that doesn’t have much narrative progression, but it’s a fascinating look at the working class as the central teenager character, Olof, goes from one job to the next and meets all sorts of interesting characters. A lot of these side-characters, like the one played by Max von Sydow, are only featured in one or two scenes. Most of these relationships are transitory, but each one offers something special, mostly an unraveling of life experiences, which is deeply ingrained in what they do for a living. Olof is the kind of person who can’t stay in one place for very long. He is a wandering poet of…

There's a lot to admire here - the first feature of Swedish director Jan Troell, better known for his epic 1970s films "The Emigrants" and "The New Land". Creative and beautiful cinematography and editing (also done by Troell), the toils of Swedish workers in the early 20th century, a rural teen's journey into adulthood. But... it's very episodic with little resolution and since the plot meanders, one truly feels it's length - almost 3 hours. So I appreciated more than loved it.

What is quite compelling is the depiction of the rough lot and exploitation of workers in both country (logging, mills) and industrial settings. The young man at the center of the film Olof (Eddie Axberg - well played…

This coming of age tale set in Sweden in the mid 1910’s from director Jan Troell is based on the semi-autobiographical writing of Eyvind Johnson, and it shows. The story is like real life, a series of events that pass by without necessarily escalating and leading to a grand climax. That may or may not work for everyone as the film is 169 minutes long, but I really enjoyed it. The cinematography is gorgeous and there is great authenticity in both recreating the period and in telling the story without dipping into the well of maudlin sentimentality. The heartbreakingly beautiful images are quite a contrast to the backbreaking manual labor we see, and even more powerful as a result.

As…

March Around the World 2021

19/30: Sweden (High Score: 21st)

A slow-goer; a gorgeous combination of down-to-earth reflections and poetic intentions. Rewards genuine patience rather than the "then this happened and then that happened" mentality based not on meeting something in the middle, but on expecting it to be fitted for you. Here Is Your Life isn't perfectly fitted for me, personally, but I think any dullness garnered from individual scenes should at least be understood as a fragment of a bigger and more rewarding picture. Perhaps if it dawdled around and didn't amount to anything, I would argue the film itself didn't make the effort. But the full circle of culture and livelihood here is quite ideological, mindful, complex,…

When they’re done right, coming-of-age films cannot be beat. Here Is Your Life is another extraordinary accomplishment in that genre due to Jan Troell’s confidence with the source material. Based off Eyvind Johnson’s writings, this film follows a young man named Olof as he sets off for labor in Sweden during World War 1. That’s pretty much the whole plot, which is initially worrisome given the long running time of nearly 3 hours. Olof simply moves from place to place, working whenever the chance arises. Whether it’s a sawmill or movie theater, Olof is willing to roll up his sleeve at any given opportunity. Whenever he has spare time, Olof also engages in self-discovery as the surrounding world is rapidly…