COME JOIN US!

October 21, 2015 is the 50th anniversary of when Helen Schucman heard the words “This is a Course in Miracles. Please take notes.”

Click this link to watch the recording of the live-stream event that happened at Unity on the River on October 21st: https://www.teachersofgod.org/achorusinmiracles

This movie is showing around the world all this week. Find a group (locations & listings below) and celebrate !

You can also access the live-stream of this event on the Teachers of God Foundation Youtube channel. Please note that you’ll need to attend one of the on-site gatherings to watch the movie and experience the entire event.

And, you’ll find many other groups around the USA and the world, listed below.

It was October 21, 1965. Dr. Helen Schucman heard a voice say “This is A Course In Miracles, please take notes.” Though she had no spiritual bias, she spent the next seven years writing down everything she heard, and the spiritual classic A Course In Miracles was born.

Now, 50 years later, we celebrate the most important and influential spiritual teaching of modern times.

A Course In Miracles

50th Anniversary Celebration

October 21, 2015

https://www.teachersofgod.org/achorusinmiracles

Starting today there will be hundreds of screenings of the new movie A Chorus In Miracles, directed by our dear friend & New York Times bestselling author James Twyman.

The movie features a few of the amazing people living the Course in dynamic ways.

YOU DON’T WANT TO MISS IT!

What a great way to celebrate Jesus’ message of love and forgiveness.

We are excited that James will be at UNITY ON THE RIVER, our beloved spiritual community, for the celebration.

Unity on the River at 6:30pm – $10.

Also, join us Friday morning (and every Friday morning) for A Course in Miracles 10:30am-12pm.

Other exciting news: WE ARE NOW LIVE-STREAMING THE FRIDAY MORNING ACIM GROUP on the Teachers of God Youtube channel. All the teachings can be viewed live on Friday mornings – and are also recorded.