Christophe Barratier (centre) based his film on his own childhood

Though made with a small budget and inexperienced child actors, Christophe Barratier's film The Chorus (Les Choristes) was a hit in its native France and inspired a general passion for choral music.

The director has since won international acclaim, including a best foreign film Oscar nomination.

The Chorus is set in rural France in 1949 and tells the story of unemployed music teacher Clement Matthieu who finds a job as a supervisor in a boarding school for troubled boys.

Gentle by nature and comical in appearance, Matthieu, played by Gerard Jugnot, becomes the victim of the pupils' taunting and the bullying authority of the headmaster.

In the film Billy Elliot, the dance means the same thing as the music to the children in my film - it's an artistic experiment but also a life lesson

Christophe Barratier

But, by introducing the boys to singing, Matthieu wins their respect, changes their lives - and that of the school.

Childhood memory

Barratier based his film on the 1945 French movie La Cage aux Rossignols (The Cage of Nightingales) and upon his own childhood.

As the son of an actress and an assistant director who were often away working, Barratier spent his early years at boarding school.

Clement Matthieu faces the tough task of inspiring his pupils

"I was very lonely and very shy so this story came roughly from memory but also partly from imagination," the director says.

"When I was nine I met a music teacher who taught me to sing and I became the soprano leader of the boys' choir. So, I was a little bit of all those kids (in the film)."

Barratier later studied classical guitar and composition at the Paris Conservatory and then tried to earn a living as a musician, but gave up due to his aversion for teaching.

"I was a good concert artist and I could teach a masterclass but to think that my life would be about teaching was a nightmare," Barratier explains.

He turned to his other love, film, instilled in him by his parents and his uncle Jacques Perrin, an actor, producer and director, and who also appears in The Chorus.

Now, as a director, Barratier says he has found the best of both worlds, and composed some of the music in The Chorus.

Wide search

Children are used in the film to bring out the true power of music, says Barratier.

"An artistic experiment can change the behaviour of a teenager or a young man. In the film Billy Elliot, the dance means the same thing as the music to the children in my film. It's an artistic experiment but also a life lesson."

Jean-Baptiste Maunier is now a huge star in France

But Barratier deliberately did not use professional child actors or singers.

He auditioned more than 200 boys from France's Auvergne region, where he was shooting, to find a varied, natural-looking but talented group.

Finding the fictional star boy soprano involved listening to boys' choirs across France to discover the young Jean-Baptiste Maunier in Lyons.

Reunion

And, just like the pupils they portray in The Chorus, the real-life amateurs have had their lives changed by their experience, says Barratier.

"For the first time in their lives they discovered that work could be fun and that there are other things you can do in your life besides homework and watching TV.

The film's success touched the whole of France

"A lot of them have carried on singing and a few now want to be actors but it's not so important that they want to be artists.

"What is important is that they know that art exists. Even their parents have changed their opinion of their children because they have done something well."

Maunier has become a star and teenage heart-throb in France and has given more than 100 concerts.

The Chorus has moved Barratier's life and career onto another level, but it has also brought it full circle.

Its success reached the ears of Jose Cunat, Barratier's now 75-year-old school music teacher - and brought about their reunion after more than 30 years.