Hal Roach, the pioneering movie producer who launched the careers of Harold Lloyd, Laurel and Hardy and other classic comedians, died Monday. He was 100.

He died at his home in Bel-Air of pneumonia, said a friend, Richard Bann.

Starting in films as a cowboy extra at $5 a day, Mr. Roach rose to command a comedy factory that produced hundreds of shorts, including the Our Gang series.

His career faded after World War II, but he remained a familiar figure in Hollywood. Still vigorous in his 90s, the barrel-chested producer appeared at film festivals honoring his long career. He was honored on his centennial birthday earlier this year.

Receiving an honorary Academy Award in 1984, he recalled how his film crews in the silent days lunched on two sandwiches and bananas and the property man saved the banana skins. Then any time a Hal Roach comedian did a pratfall, he slipped on a banana peel _ and they slipped many times.

"The great thing about it was that the bananas didn't cost me anything."

During his heyday, Mr. Roach hired scores of comedians, including such accomplished but now little-known performers as Charley Chase, James Finlayson and Anita Garvin. But his greatest combination was Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy.

In 1968, Mr. Roach commented on why Laurel and Hardy remained popular: "It's because there's a lack of their kind of comedy. People appreciate them more now because they haven't got any competition. It seems to me that people have been laughing at things that aren't funny because they're dyin' to laugh."

Mr. Roach drifted into movies by accident. Born in Elmira, N.Y., on Jan. 14, 1892, he spent his early years on the move, mining for gold and running mule trains in Alaska and driving a truck in Seattle. He was 20 in 1912 when he landed in Los Angeles as the infant movie industry was starting to move west.

Universal hired him as a stunt man, extra and bit player at $5 a day. He became acquainted with another unknown actor, Lloyd, whom he saw as a potential comedy star. When Mr. Roach inherited $3,000 in 1915, he started his own company with Lloyd starring in a comedy series called Willie Work. It was a failure.

In the early '20s, Lloyd went on to produce his own feature films, and Mr. Roach continued concentrating on shorts. He exhibited a talent for developing comedy stars, including Snub Pollard, Will Rogers (already a Broadway star), Max Davidson and Edgar Kennedy as well as Chase and Finlayson.

In 1927 Mr. Roach combined Laurel and Hardy, who became his greatest stars.

The two comedians had worked together in a 1917 two-reeler, Lucky Dog. Both were on the Roach payroll in 1927, when they made their first comedy as a team, Duck Soup. They continued in more than 100 films, 27 of them features. A 1932 Laurel and Hardy two-reeler, The Music Box, won an Academy Award for best short subject.

Our Gang was another Roach invention. The series originated in 1922 and became immensely popular with the advent of sound.

As the Depression wore on, Mr. Roach realized the two-reel comedy was dying because hard-pressed theaters were offering double-features to encourage attendance. He moved Laurel and Hardy into features, and he began to compete with the major studios with such films as Captain Fury, The Housekeeper's Daughter, Of Mice and Men, Topper and One Million B.C.

Even at 100, Mr. Roach retained his interest in films, campaigning for the return of the two-reel comedy.

"Nowadays people go to the movies and all they get is a feature movie," he observed in an Associated Press interview. "They would be much more satisfied if they had 20 minutes of laughter."