De Nada Cantina

4715 East Cesar Chavez St.

De Nada Cantina is a fun taco spot on the east side with ample outdoor seating and excellent tacos. Hand-pressed corn tortillas (no flour here!), slow-braised meats and fresh margaritas are all made in house to create a wonderful culinary experience. Open until midnight most days of the week, this is an ideal late night snack stop after a night on the town.

The Well

440 West 2nd St.

Eat well at The Well, where clean and sustainably sourced ingredients contribute to fare that is delectable and nourishing. There’s no gluten, GMOs, seed oils, soy or refined sugar to be found here, making it accessible for any and all preferences. Visit for brunch, lunch, dinner or happy hour — everything on the menu is fantastic and creative.

ATX Cocina

110 San Antonio St., Suite 170

ATX Cocina is a fully gluten-free restaurant so feel free to order to your heart’s desire from the bounty of traditional yet modern Mexican offerings. The atmosphere is friendly and communal, as guests are invited to share large dishes from the grill and toast with cocktails made from organic agaves, high-quality tequilas and mezcals sourced from Mexico and freshly-squeezed juices.

Thai Fresh

909 West Mary St.

Chef Jam Sanitchat brings together authentic flavors and seasonal ingredients at Thai Fresh, a local favorite for 15 years and counting. Many typical menu items are gluten free, and their in-house bakery boasts an entirely gluten-free line-up of sweet treats and decadent desserts. Relish in a delicious meal of Thai cuisine, then finish it off with a cookie, cake or brownie — all baked from a house-made flour mix of rice flour, tapioca starch and potato starch.

Picnik

Multiple Locations

A perfect spot for those with dietary restrictions, Picnik makes eating simple and exciting thanks to its entirely gluten-free, refined sugar-free and peanut-free menu. Highlights include the adaptogen-filled cocktails, filling bowls and crispy fried chicken, and with several locations around town, Picnik can be a go-to health-conscious spot for any food lover.

Nixta Taqueria

2512 East 12th St.

Another amazing taco spot with an awesome array of GF flavors, Nixta Taqueria sources their maíz from San Martín Tilcajete in Oaxaca, Mexico, making the corn tortillas as fresh and authentic as they come. James Beard Award-winning Chef Edgar Rico whips up imaginative tacos, tostadas and postres in a colorful setting. Plus, enjoy low-intervention wines, aguas frescas, low-ABV cocktails and other creative beverages.

OMG Squee

4607 Bolm Rd., Suite A

OMG Squee is a beloved small-batch bakery whipping up 100% gluten-free Asian American desserts for Austinities. Everything from OMG Squee will brighten your day, from butter mochi donuts to taiyaki soft serve and ever-changing macaron creations.

Bartlett’s

2408 West Anderson Ln.

Bartlett’s makes the steakhouse concept accessible for eaters avoiding gluten thanks to its distinct, additional gluten-free menu. From those offerings, the Austin mainstay boasts entrees like the Kansas City Strip, Cold Water Salmon and Filet Mignon, in addition to Garlic Mashed Potatoes, Wilted Spinach with Reggiano and more steak house favorites. On top of that, the classic cocktails here are fresh and made-to-order, adding the perfect flair to an already wonderful meal.

Honest Mary’s

4800 Burnet Rd., C300

9828 Great Hills Trail, #300

Build a bowl at Honest Mary’s, where many items are gluten free and easy to order thanks to the clearly marked menu. This is an ideal spot for a quick lunch — either order ahead for convenient pick-up or walk through the fast-moving line to choose from all the nutritious bases, proteins, toppings and dressings.

Koriente

621 East 7th St.

At Koriente, diners will find health-forward Asian dishes served in an enchanting flower-filled garden. The Teriyaki Chicken, Pan-seared Ahi Tuna and Mix Mix Bibimbap are just a few of the options on the gluten-free guide, but be sure to specify you want the gluten-free option when ordering. Koriente is also an amazing place to order take-out or delivery to enjoy the MSG-free, veggie-filled dishes at home.

Bulevar

9400 Arboretum Blvd.

Bulevar, a totally gluten-free establishment, opened to well-deserved acclaim in 2022 thanks to its mouthwatering Latin American-inspired cuisine and sweeping patio views. A sister restaurant of ATX Cocina, Bulevar similarly imbues a modern style into their premium meats and heirloom vegetables.

Zucchini Kill

701 East 53rd St.

2908 Fruth St., B

A bakery that’s whipping up completely gluten-free, soy-free and vegan treats, Zucchini Kill boasts locations at Wyrd Wood Village and Tweedy’s Bar. This is the spot to order a custom birthday cake for your next celebration or brighten someone’s day with handheld treats such as the Strawberry Cheesecake Cupcake or Black Moon Pie.

Bouldin Creek Cafe

1900 South 1st St.

Known primarily for its vegan and vegetarian fare, Bouldin Creek is also great for wheat-free eaters. Several meals have options to become gluten-free, while many naturally are made that way. With breakfast, lunch, dinner, desserts and drinks, this café is a neighborhood favorite that always satisfies cravings.

Maaribu

Maaribu is a dedicated gluten-free bakery meets a unique shopping experience. They offer fresh, scratch-made, organic baked items crafted with high-quality ingredients. Guests can shop for gorgeous home decor and curated gifts while sipping Greater Goods coffee and adaptogenic wellness lattes and eating sweet and savory goodies at two Central Austin locations.

Nomade Cocina & Raw Bar

1506 S 1st St.