After several weeks of development the launch of the new version of the popular audio player "qmmp 1.4.0”And in this new version quite interesting changes are presented, plus it also comes with an update to its plugin package.

For those who do not know about this player, I can tell you that hmmp is a cross-platform audio player that is written in C ++ and Qt has an interface similar to Winamp or XMMS that it also offers us the possibility of adding Winamp skins.

hmmp does not depend on Gstreamer and offers support for various sound output systems for the best sound. Also supports output through OSS4 (FreeBSD), ALSA (Linux), Pulse Audio, JACK, QtMultimedia, Icecast, WaveOut (Win32), DirectSound (Win32) and WASAPI (Win32), plus supports many audio formats.

Within other of the features that the player has is the ability to make use of keyboard shortcuts to quickly control audio playback, plus Qmmp always keeps memory consumption low even when it has been playing for hours.

What's new in qmmp 1.4.0?

This new version of the player comes with some major changes to your modules which in ffmpeg a new read function was implemented, support for built-in CUE (for Monkey's Audio format), format name display, support for DSD (Direct Stream Digital), the minimum version of FFmpeg has been raised to 3.2 and support for libav has been removed.

A YouTube support module has been added that uses youtube-dl to the plugin set and the ffap module has been improved.

In the module to display lyrics, window geometry preservation has been added and the ssupport for various providers (based on the Ultimare lyrics complement), while for cdaudio now provides more metadata output and add integration with KDE Solid and the recording module has the ability to write to a single file.

The qsui has been improved as the ability to change the background color of the current track is now implemented, the display in the form of an oscilloscope, the function of resetting the display colors, the scroll bar with the waveform, an alternative view of the analyzer, the gradients in the transitions between the colors of the analyzer are used, the state is improved.

As for the novelties that are presented in this new version, we can find thea ability to display the average bit rate, even for shoutcast / icecast broadcasts

Added ability to combine multiple tags in mpeg module, ability to run a command when starting and ending a program, improved support for remote playlists, improved m3u support and added support for big endian formats in the PulseAudio module.

Of the other changes mentioned in this new version:

The ReplayGain scanner has support for Ogg Opus.

SOCKS5 proxy support added.

Added the ability to switch between playlists.

Added ability to disable EQ double pass.

Added sleep lock module.

A separate module was added to send information to ListenBrainz.

Added automatic hiding of empty service menus.

When using Wayland, the qsui interface is used by default.

For most output modules, the option to quickly turn off the sound is implemented.

A unique implementation of the CUE parser is proposed.

You can select the track list format before saving.

Added command line options "–pl-next" and "–pl-prev".

Finally if you want to know more about it about the changes implemented in this new version, you can consult the details in the following link.

Installation

For those who are interested in being able to install this player on their system, they can go to the following link where You can find instructions for its distribution.