Mythri Movie Makers presents Savyasachi, featuring Naga Chaitanya with a pretty girl to accompany in the form of Niddhi Aggarwal. There is also the experienced smart looking Maddy playing the antagonist.

The USP of Savyasachi is the medical term that the film talks about - vanishing twin syndrome. But this fresh concept is used only to freshen up the narrative style of the movie which otherwise, is a typical revenge drama. In fact, to a larger part, Chay’s medical condition doesn’t make a big difference to the story. The left-hand syndrome is used to freshen up the narrative, but it is not effective.

Madhavan proves that he is a seasoned campaigner. He carries his role with such ease and elan. But one feels that his role could have been stronger. His cat and mouse game with Chay isn’t as effective as one might want it to be.

Vikram Aditya (Naga Chaitanya) is a twin born in one body (twin vanishing syndrome). He is an advertisement filmmaker who goes after a menacing villain who has kidnapped his niece. Vikram Aditya has to find out the reason behind the kidnap to actually save his niece. Though the plot seems interesting on the outset, when the reason gets revealed, our interest level drops several notches.

Naga Chaitanya’s impish smile and nonchalant body language render the character an endearing feel. He dishes out a charming performance in the first half, while he also scores in action sequences.

Vennela Kishore is the perfect foil for Chay and their chemistry works well at places. However, Vennela’s antics are much on expected lines. The romance portions in the first half is a big weakness and slightly boring.

The college portions, a few logical loopholes in the script, and misplaced comedy and songs are the major drawbacks of Savyasachi.

There is almost a battalion of supporting cast in the form of Bhumika Chawla, Dishitha, Rao Ramesh, Thagubothu Ramesh, and Bharath Reddy. Most of them do not have a big scope to showcase their talent just like the lead heroine Niddhi Aggarwal who is used more for the songs.