Naga Chaitanya's Savyasachi managed to pique the interest of the audience right from the film's muhurat. From its ensemble cast to its intriguing theme, Savyasachi did impress everyone and it helped create a positive buzz.

But the buzz is not enough to sustain the film, now that it is in theatres. Savyasachi is a bore-fest for the most part. The film deals with the Vanishing Twin Syndrome, which makes for an interesting premise. But the script-to-screen translation is a huge failure.

advertisement

Savyasachi begins with the story of mythological character Bhasmasura, an asura who has the power to burn people to cinders. As the story progresses, we understand why director Chandoo starts his film with this story.

Vikramaditya (Naga Chaitanya) is a sentimental lad whose left hand is never in his control. His left hand is activated whenever Vikram feels happy or angry. One day, his life turns upside down when he gets a call from the antagonist (Madhavan). How Vikram and his left hand overcome Madhavan's intelligence is the story of Savyasachi.

Savyasachi's premise had the capabilities to have been an interesting thriller. But it is weighed down by Chandoo Mondeti's sluggish writing. The filmmaker constantly oscillates between an action thriller and a supernatural thriller, and doesn't seem to have made up his mind about what he wanted Savyasachi to be.

Whenever Vikram feels a surge of emotion, his left hand reacts to it. But whenever his left hand comes to life, it has supernatural powers. For example, it can sense a sharp object approaching Vikram's back and stop it in one stroke.

It is this supernatural element that makes Savyasachi a little underwhelming. In the first half, we see Vikram's playful and romantic side with Chithra (Nidhhi Agerwal), but their romance doesn't evoke any positive emotions at all. Chaitanya looks caricaturish in the romantic portions and they test your patience.

If the romantic track is a huge flaw in Savyasachi, so is the big reveal. Madhavan is portrayed as a psychopath who has the uncontrollable rage to kill those who hurt him. When the reason about why Madhavan is behind Vikram's family is revealed, you just stare at the screen with a blank expression on your face.

The saving grace of Savyasachi is Maddy's impressive performance. His villainous laugh and minute expressions make for a menacing villain. It would have been better had he dubbed for his character.

Nidhhi Agerwal's Telugu debut is disappointing as her portion doesn't add any value to the story of Savyasachi. If Chandoo had done away with the entire romance portion, Savyasachi might have worked better.

Director Chandoo Mondeti's Savyasachi could have been an intriguing thriller, but it is not. Weak writing and underwhelming characterisations spoil the film, says our review.

2 stars out of 5 for Savyasachi.

ALSO SEE | Savyasachi first look: Naga Chaitanya takes up a badass avatar for this actioner