Today, Laurent Ferrier presents an incredibly gorgeous watch that could very well be the perfect alternative for anyone wanting a Patek Philippe Nautilus 5711. The new Laurent Ferrier Sport Auto takes its inspiration from the world of motorsports where Laurent Ferrier himself and his partner François Servanin were extremely active in the late 1970s.

The story begins on June 9, 1979, on the Sarthe circuit, at Le Mans. François and Laurent Ferrier were about to start the iconic 24 Hours of Le Mans race. Although they had participated in this race together for a number of years, tension was still running high. They started 20th on the starting line and were among the top of Group 5. With the race about to start, François took the decisive start, determined to impose their Porsche 935 Turbo in the standings. After 24 hours of racing, 292 laps, 3,988.25 kilometers covered, a top speed of 312 km/h in the Mulsanne straight, a rainy night but a dazzling sunrise, stress at its peak, 24 pit stops for various supplies, repairs, and changes of driver, it was June 10, 1979, at 3 p.m. when their teammate François Trisconi crossed the finish line in 3rd place right behind Paul Newman. At the paddocks, Laurent Ferrier offered a Patek Philippe Nautilus to François, as a token of gratitude after this shared performance. Inspired by this gift, François challenged Laurent Ferrier to launch a company and make their own watches. Then in 2009, the manufacture Laurent Ferrier was born.

The exterior of the Laurent Ferrier Sport Auto is a refined interplay of firm and rounded curves enlivened by a few counter-curves outlining a bodywork with a perfectly balanced design, much like a sportscar in the world of motorsports. The grade 5 titanium case measures 41.5 mm in diameter and 12.70 mm in thickness. An evolution from their Square-shaped case, to the tonneau-shaped middle case with a very pronounced look. The Sport Auto has a silhouette that is both sporty and curvaceous. To reinforce the contrast of this confrontation of curves from the Grand Sport Tourbillon, but slightly smaller in size, and give an aerodynamic aspect to the timepiece, the finishes are different on each of its faces. The bezel displays a circular satin-brushed finish that contrasts with its mirror-polished flanks as well as with the vertical satin-brushed middle case with 120-meter water resistance.

A fully integrated grade 5 titanium bracelet has been added to complete the amazing design of this new timepiece. Featuring vertical satin-brushed finish and polished flanks, the center links feature polished inclined sides to create a symphony of light. These different finishes give the Sport Auto a very mechanical aspect, another tribute to traditional watchmaking mixed with the two founders’ passion for cars. To complete the design, the signature Laurent Ferrier ball-shaped crown is for the first time of the screwed-down type.

Equipped with a domed sapphire crystal the Sport Auto has an irresistible curve to the touch. Fitted with a strikingly beautiful opaline finished gradient blue dial with varying shades of blue, the transfers are powder grey, the small seconds subdial at 6 o’clock is snailed finished, the ‘Assegai’-shaped hands and the drop-shaped applied hour markers are made of 18K white gold and filled with superluminova for optimum readability in low light environments.

The Movement

A brand new movement has been developed by Laurent Ferrier to power the Sport Auto. The Maison’s second automatic calendar movement, the LF 270.01 calibre is the result of an exclusive development. As a subtle blend of a tribute to the micro-rotor with natural escapement and a more assertive and sporty style, this movement is entirely designed, decorated, assembled, and adjusted in the Laurent Ferrier workshops.

Less sensitive than the natural escapement and more suited to sports watches, this is a Swiss lever escapement using an automatic winding system with an off-centered micro-rotor. For non-negligible benefits in terms of resistance to shocks and vibrations, this movement is fitted with a unidirectional ball bearing replacing the traditional ratchet system. Like a balance wheel, the micro-rotor is equipped with a .950 platinum oscillating weight, placed directly between the plate and the bridge to ensure ideal stability and maximized winding power.

This automatic movement is composed of 215 parts and 31 jewels and when fully wound it provides a power reserve of 3 full days while beating at a frequency of 28,800 vph. The movement is exquisitely finished with a horizontal satin-brushed finish and its bridges are ruthenium treated. Each calibre LF 270.01 requires more than 139 manual finishing operations. For instance, the bridge of the micro-rotor movement is meticulously decorated by hand with the angles softened then finished with gentian wood or diamantine, while the surface is mirror-polished.