Denis Bouvier trained at INSA (formerly ENSAIS), before working first with Jacques Ferrier and then Nieto Sobejano in Madrid. He joined Groupe-6 in 2001, became a partner in 2005, a member of the strategic and administrative board in 2011, and executive director in 2014. He become President in 2017. His approach to architecture as a broad-based discipline and his experience as a teacher have led him to explore several fields including urban design, culture, health, workspaces, teaching and research. He has designed some major health care facilities, research laboratories and company headquarters, for example: hospitals in Arras (France, 2009) and Rennaz (Switzerland, 2019); the Caveirac medical centre (2016); the labs LMA in Marseille (winner of the AMO Saint-Gobain Award 2016) and CRBS in Strasbourg (2021); and the Schneider Electric Innovation Hub in Grenoble (2020).

Hôpital Riviera-Chablais, Vaud-Valais, Rennaz, Suisse

Head of Innovation offices, Schneider Electric, Grenoble

Biomedecine laboratories (CRBS), Strasbourg, France

Laboratoire LMA, research unit, Marseilles, France

Follow-up Care and Rehabilitation Facility, Caveirac

British architect Mark Wilson trained in London (Grimshaw, McAslan). He has been a partner at Groupe-6 since 1999, and was appointed associate director in 2006. Mark is a member of the board and vice-president, and was made executive director in 2014. He runs all the major commercial development projects at Groupe-6, both in France and abroad, as well as transport facility projects. He designed the extension of Cap3000 shopping centre in Nice, the Caserne de Bonne shopping centre in Grenoble, the Chapeau Rouge development in Quimper, the Vache Noire shopping centre in Arcueil, and the Debenhams store in Liverpool. He has also taken part in the La Samaritaine project with Sanaa. He is now running the Maison Blanche station project in southeast Paris, the Grand Paris Express operational hub at Aulnay-sous-Bois, and the Dubai Summit project in Hatta, Dubai.

Dubai Summit

Renewal and extension of Cap 3000

Realization of the exploitation center for the Grand Paris Express, in Aulnay-sous-Bois (suburbs of Paris)

Maison Blanche station, Paris XIII – on the line 14 of the Grand Paris Express

Caserne de Bonne, Multipurpose Centre, Grenoble

Urban designer Laurent Perret joined Groupe-6 in 2001, became a partner in 2014 and executive director in 2021. He first ran the Urban Design department in Grenoble, developing a range of urban projects including the Paris-Est Science and Technology Hub in Marne-la-Vallée and the renovation of the Hôtel-Dieu in Lyon. Since 2011, he has coordinated the development of the firm, using his knowledge of its projects and approach to look for new partnership opportunities.

Didier joined Groupe-6 in 2003 and has been a partner since 2008. In the quantity surveying department, which he runs, he is involved in all the public and private programmes for hospitals, research laboratories and commercial developments. He is currently overseeing the preliminary planning for the Cap 3000 shopping centre in Nice, the sports and culture centre in Chartres, the SMR-SMI train maintenance hub in Aulnay, and the Reims hospital project. Didier supports and advises the architects on an on-going basis, helping them to remain on budget as expected by the client.

Alexandre started out in Los Angeles and Paris with Dominique Perrault and Architecture Studio, and joined Groupe-6 in 2008 and became Partner in 2020. His cross-disciplinary and international expertise allows him to tackle all kinds of programmes on all scales: cultural and sports facilities, transport, industrial or commercial developments, health facilities, and housing. He has supervised the studies for the JW Marriott Hotel in Bahrain and the housing program Ilot Casanova in Chartres, and currently runs the realization of the Grand Paris Express Exploitation Center in Aulnay-sous-Bois, the Arena in Chartres and headquarters for Naval Group near Nantes and for the CIC group in Paris.

Realization of the exploitation center for the Grand Paris Express, in Aulnay-sous-Bois (suburbs of Paris)

Timber tower in the Wacken, Strasbourg

Office building for Naval Group in Nantes-Indret

Hôtel JW Marriott, Manama, Bahrain

Sport and culture Equipment of the "Pole Gare", Chartres

Casanova Block, mixed-use building in Chartres, France

A Groupe-6 partner since 2005, Bruno Hallé works in several fields, mainly office and industrial developments, universities and laboratories, and shopping centres. In Grenoble he designed the head offices for Crédit Agricole Sud Rhône-Alpes (2017) and the Alstom centre (2015); the SDIS headquarters in Fontaine (2017); the GreEn-ER science campus in Grenoble (2015), the Magmas-Volcans laboratories in Clermont-Ferrand (2016). After some large competitions (MIN in Nice, Solvay chimical campus in Saint-Fons), he runs the projects of the prison centres of Troyes-Lavau and Les Baumettes in Marseilles.

GreEn-ER, scientific campus, Grenoble, France.

Crédit Agricole Sud Rhône Alpes bank Headquarters, Grenoble

Groupe-6, architects’ office, Grenoble

Caserne de Bonne, Multipurpose Centre, Grenoble

Franck Lavigne was a partner at Espace (Brigit de Kosmi) until 2001, joined Groupe-6 in 2002, and was made a partner in 2006. A specialist in hospital architecture, he has planned, built and extended several major health facilities: Centre Hospitalier Sud Francilien in Corbeil-Essonnes, a large-scale project (116,500 sq.m.) completed in 2011; extension/remodelling of the hospital in Dijon, (2010 and 2013), hospital extension in Créteil (2014), new Nord-Deux-Sèvres Hospital in Faye l’Abbesse (2018). In 2015 he ran the competition entry for the Ile de Nantes Hospital, and in 2016 the entry for the Nouveau Lariboisière. He is currently overseeing the realization of the Institut de Canderologie et d’Imagerie in Brest.

Sud Francilien Hospital, Corbeil-Essonnes

Nouveau Lariboisière, Paris

Chirurgical and Operating Center of the General Hospital, Rennes, France

University Hospital, Dijon

Centre Hospitalier Nord-Deux-Sèvres, Faye l'Abbesse

University Hospital Grand Paris-Nord

Alain Marchal joined Groupe 6 in 2009. Project Director, he specialises in sports, leisure and cultural facilities, and has in-depth experience of applying functional and operational requirements to such large and often emblematic facilities. He was in charge of the compettion for the Paris Arena 2024, the construction of the Bordeaux Stadium (2015) working alongside Herzog & de Meuron (PPP Vinci concession / Vinci construction / Fayat), and supervised the plans for ENS Cachan, working with RPBW. He recently designed the Ecole de Management de Normandie /Cité numérique in Le Havre (2020), the sport and culture hall for the Jeu de Paume in Blois (2017), and supervised the competitions for the Palais des Congrès / Parc Expos and 8,000-seater sports hall in Orléans and the Colyseeum in Tremblay. He currently runs the studies for Symbio hydrogen plant in Saint-Fons, near Lyon.

Digital city and Normandy Management High School in Le Havre

Symbio Factory à Saint-Fons

Paris Arena, Paris

Stadium in Bordeaux

ENS Cachan with Renzo Piano Building Workshop, Saclay

Jeu de Paume, Equipment sport and culture, in Blois

Yves Tailfer graduated from the Institut Supérieur d’Architecture Saint-Luc in Tournai (Belgium), joined Groupe-6 in 2002, and became Project Director in 2016. His experience mainly involves complex programmes (health, laboratories, teaching), in France and abroad. He was in charge of the competition entry for the extension the INPG Phelma 2 in Grenoble, the CBI labs in Toulouse (2015), and the Villefranche-sur-Saône hospital (2016). He was project manager for the Clinique d’Alembert in Grenoble and the Centre Bretagne Hospital in Pontivy (2012), and supervised the plans for Hospital of the Future in Kiev, Ukraine and the San Pedro campus in Côte d’Ivoire (2015). He is currently supervising the construction of the Riviera-Chablais Hospital in Rennaz, Switzerland (completion scheduled for spring 2019).

Hôpital Riviera-Chablais, Vaud-Valais, Rennaz, Suisse

Centre Bretagne General Hospital, Pontivy, France

Thierry Bernardoux has worked for Groupe-6 since 1993 and has been Project Director since 2016. He has been in charge of several hospital projects, in particular the Nouvel Hôpital d’Orléans, from the planning stage (2006) to completion. Certified “HQE” and completed in 2015, the NHO is the first hospital in France with more than 1,300 beds and a floor area of 180,000 sq.m. He has also worked on the Le Vinatier Bron hospital (1999), the Paray le Monial hospital (2006), and the Estaing hospital in Clermont-Ferrand (completed in 2009). Since 2013, Thierry Bernardoux has been BIM Manager and BIM Consultant for Groupe-6. He is currently in charge of the project for the new hospital in Reims.

Nouvel Hôpital, Orléans

Extension of the University Hospital Centre of Reims

Nathalie Pierre joined Groupe-6 in 1985 and has been Project Director since 2016. She specialises in hospital architecture and has put forward innovative solutions for the high-tech medical hub in Valenciennes (2009), the Saint-Gaudens hospital (2009), and the medical hub in Bourg-en-Bresse (2016). She was also in charge of the construction of the International Lycée in Grenoble (2001), a clinic in Aix-les-Bains, and La Roseraie in Aubervilliers. She has recently supervised several competition entries including those for the hospitals of Poissy-Saint-Germain (2017) and Reims (2017). She was HR consultant for Groupe-6 from 2005 to 2011, and was responsible for obtaining and managing ISO 9001 certification.

Biology – Pharmacy – Chemistry Cluster in Saclay, France, Saclay

CHIPS, Poissy

International School Complex, Grenoble

Pole Biology Health, Nancy