MONTREAL, Canada (Reuters) -- Thousands of mourners, including Cuban President Fidel Castro, former U.S. president Jimmy Carter and Britain's Prince Andrew, gathered on Tuesday for the emotional start of the state funeral of former Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau.

Under a hazy blue autumn sky and warm temperatures, people flocked to the ornate Notre Dame basilica in Montreal's old quarter to bid adieu to Canada's 15th prime minister, who died on Thursday of prostate cancer at age 80. The funeral was the culmination of five days of national mourning for Canada's charismatic former leader.

In a solemn cortege from Montreal's 122-year-old City Hall to the basilica, Trudeau's ex-wife Margaret and their two sons, Justin, 29, and Sacha, 27, accompanied his flag-draped casket. Sarah, Trudeau's 10-year-old daughter by Canadian constitutional expert Deborah Coyne, was also in the funeral procession with her mother.

People lining the street's of Montreal's historic old quarter applauded as the cortege arrived at the basilica, where thousands waited inside. Some spontaneously sang Canada's national anthem. Many had tears in their eyes.

Castro and Carter, who chatted together in front of the basilica, were among 21 honorary pallbearers who walked behind the casket as an honor guard of Royal Canadian Mounted Police in their trademark scarlet tunics carried it into the church.

In a poignant moment, Castro hugged Trudeau's sons and Margaret Trudeau.

During his almost 16 years as prime minister, from 1968 to 1979 and 1980 to 1984, Trudeau pointedly fostered friendly relations with Cuba. In 1976, Trudeau was the first NATO leader to visit Cuba. The friendship between Trudeau and Castro was instrumental in weakening the U.S. economic embargo against Cuba.

Outside the basilica, Carter remembered Trudeau as one of the first leaders to offer him advice, adding that the two remained friends after their respective terms in office.

"More than any person I know, Pierre Trudeau has been a symbol of unity and human rights and democracy and freedom around the world," Carter told reporters.

Other honorary pallbearers included the Aga Khan, spiritual leader of the Ismaili Muslim community and Canadian poet and songwriter Leonard Cohen.

A visibly shaken Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien said he was deeply affected by the death of Trudeau, a friend and mentor for many years. Chretien had been a Trudeau cabinet minister, often handling difficult portfolios such as constitutional talks with the country's 10 provinces.

"He was what we wanted all of us to be," Chretien told reporters.

"He will be remembered as the first and greatest of the prime ministers of the new Canada," he added.

Canadian Governor-General Adrienne Clarkson, representative of Queen Elizabeth, said she was at the funeral on behalf of all Canadians.

"This is a moment of national mourning," she said. "We are here at a historic moment."

Those outside the basilica watched the indoor ceremony on a large screen. Music and the words of Cardinal Jean-Claude Turcotte echoed through the Place d'Armes in front of the basilica.

Nancy Lee, 41, an English and French-speaking Montrealer, said Trudeau's death marked the end of an era for Canada.

"For an English speaker like me who was raised in Quebec, he gave us a certain confidence that we still had a place in Quebec and in Canada," she told Reuters.

"It is the last time we will be able to pay tribute to him, but all of what he did will last. He left us too early," said Nathalie Zakaib.

Copyright 2000 Reuters. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.

RELATED STORIES:

Thousands turn out as Trudeau's coffin arrives in Montreal

October 2, 2000

Trudeau's body arrives in Ottawa, crowds wait in tribute

September 30, 2000

Canadians and world leaders mourn Trudeau

September 29, 2000

Chretien: Trudeau gave pride, strove for justice

September 28, 2000

Flamboyant former Canadian leader Pierre Trudeau dies

September 28, 2000

RELATED SITES: