Econophysics is a rapidly growing field which applies the idea of physics especially statistical physics into economics especially financial economics. This paper first reviews the history, concepts, applications, and challenges of econophysics and then ends with an empirical investigation. Based on present paper, economists were who firstly introduced interaction between economics and physics (that we call it old econophysics), but the majority of the efforts in new Econophysics is made by…

Econophysics: The Emergence of a New Field?

N. LisoG. Filatrella

Economics, Physics

The word "econophysics" has appeared in the second half of the 1990s. The word combines the names of the two disciplines economics and physics, and the content of the new discipline basically refers…

Debating the role of econophysics.

Rosser Jb

Economics

Research in econophysics has been going on for more than a decade with considerable publicity in some of the leading general science journals. Strong claims have been made by some advocates regarding…

Is Econophysics a Solid Science

Z. BurdaJ. JurkiewiczM. Nowak

Economics, Physics

Econophysics is an approach to quantitative economy using ideas, models, conceptual and computational methods of statistical physics. In recent years many of physical theories like theory of…

Econophysics: historical perspectives

G. DanielD. Sornette

History, Economics

Econophysics embodies the recent upsurge of interest by physicists into financial economics, driven by the availability of large amount of data, job shortage in physics and the possibility of…

An Introduction to Econophysics: Correlations and Complexity in Finance

R. MantegnaH. Stanley

Physics, Economics

This book concerns the use of concepts from statistical physics in the description of financial systems. The authors illustrate the scaling concepts used in probability theory, critical phenomena,…

Can statistical physics contribute to the science of economics

M. H. StanleyL. A. Amaral H. Stanley

Economics, Physics

In recent years, a breakthrough in statistical physics has occurred. Simply put, statistical physicists have determined that physical systems which consist of a large number of interacting particles…

The Nature and Future of Econophysics

J. Barkley Rosser

Economics, Physics

The article presents an overview of econophysics, its main issues, history and possible paths of future development. Descriptions of the subject, problems and methodology are provided. The questions…