Physics has found an interesting application in the world of finance. This is due to the myriad ways in which it can be used to express various relationships that exist within economics and finance. It, along with mathematics, has made measurable and quantifiable a threat in finance that had previously been completely intangible: uncertainty. Uncertainty underlines a lot of economic functions, and it seriously affects economic undertakings such as planning for expected outcomes. To overcome uncertainty, one needs to first understand it, and then offer potential solutions, which is where econophysics and other applications of physics in the field of finance play an important role.

Econophysics is a subject in which theories that are originally associated with physics are used to enhance the understanding of the field of economics. It is an interdisciplinary research field that attempts to explain and solve problems that are faced in an economics context using the expertise and theories that were developed in a physics context. Econophysics is particularly powerful when it comes to dealing with problems that involve nonlinear dynamics or stochastic processes and uncertainty. Econophysics can also be understood and perceived as statistical finance with roots in statistical physics.

Thermoeconomics, a field that is also known as biophysical economics, is a heterodox school of thought which applies the laws of thermodynamics to economic theory. The second law of thermodynamics, which states that any spontaneous process will lead to the escalation of entropy in a system, has been widely applied to economics through thermoeconomics. Thermoeconomics can be understood as an application of statistical physics when dealing with economic value.

Phynance, the name for which is derived from “Physics Together with Finance”, incorporates finance and physics aspects in order to gain a better understanding of various economic concepts. Economists found discrepancies in outcomes that certain economic theories that had been traditionally formulated expected and experienced outcomes. They also found that existing economic theories could not provide satisfactorily substantial explanations for these discrepancies.

The widespread applications of physics in the field of economics led to a massive boom in the late 90s where finance houses were hiring physics graduates by boatload. The expertise that was provided by the physicists was used to develop models that help us gain insights into wealth distribution and poverty. This sort of work has many different names, such as econophysics, thermoeconomics, and phynance which we have discussed in the body of this text, among others, like qualitative finance and financial engineering. Even though there are different names on the tin, the core concept that is central to all these disciplines is the same. They all work on the principle that monetary transactions take place within a statistical framework which has characteristics that we can both study and understand using methods established in statistical finance and mathematics.

Source: