KARACHI/ISLAMABAD: The Pakistan Supreme Court said on Wednesday former Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, hanged in 1979 following one of the country’s most controversial legal cases, did not get a fair trial, a verdict widely seen by the ex-premier’s family and political associates as a “correcting of history.”

Bhutto was hanged on April 4, 1979, in Rawalpindi District Jail, where he had been confined since his conviction on charges of conspiring to murder a political opponent. The charismatic, Western-educated leader who founded the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) served as the fourth president of Pakistan from 1971 to 1973, and later as the country’s ninth prime minister from 1973 to 1977. He was ousted in a military coup by General Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq on July 5, 1977, following an election in which Bhutto is widely charged with having rigged the vote.

Legal experts have for years questioned Bhutto’s trial both in the Lahore High Court and the Supreme Court, and raised questions on the conduct and procedure of the hearings, as well as on the fact that they took place while Pakistan was under military rule. Analysts argue this is the reason Bhutto’s death penalty judgment has never been cited as a precedent in any subsequent case in Pakistan’s judicial history.

“The proceedings of the trial by the Lahore High Court and of the appeal by the Supreme Court of Pakistan do not meet the requirements of the fundamental right to a fair trial and due process enshrined in Articles 4 and 9 of the constitution,” the chief justice said while announcing the unanimous opinion of the court under its advisory jurisdiction.

The guilty verdict against Bhutto is still considered one of the most controversial milestones in Pakistan’s history. His family and political supporters allege the judges came under pressure from Zia to sentence Bhutto to death.

Before his hanging, Bhutto was first declared guilty in 1978 by the Lahore High Court. His appeal in the Supreme Court was then dismissed with a 4-3 verdict.

The decision to hang Bhutto was made by General Zia despite a flood of petitions for executive clemency from dozens of world leaders, including US President Jimmy Carter, Russia’s Leonid I. Brezhnev, Chinese PM Hua Guofeng and Pope John Paul II, besides thousands of Bhutto’s Pakistani supporters.

Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari, Bhutto’s son-in-law, filed a presidential reference in 2011 to review the 44-year-old death sentence. Only six hearings were conducted, the last of them in November 2012. A nine-member larger bench of the Supreme Court began rehearing the reference last December.

Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif, in a statement following the verdict, said the top court had set “a new tradition” through its opinion.

“The unanimous opinion of the Supreme Court in the Bhutto reference will help understand history at the national level through the right perspective,” Sharif noted. “The process of national unity and development can be accelerated only by correcting the past mistakes and doing away with the bitterness.”

The Bhutto family described the apex court’s decision as “historic and bold,” saying it has helped address the family’s and the PPP’s reservations after over four decades.

“This historic and bold opinion of the Supreme Court has helped correct the history besides addressing reservations of the family and the party,” Zulfikar Ali Badar, PPP Chairman Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari’s spokesperson, told Arab News.

“The party leadership has welcomed the court’s opinion,” he said. “The party will announce a strategy on how to celebrate it after the court releases a detailed opinion on it.”

Badar noted the court acknowledged its “historic mistake” and tried to correct it through a legal opinion. “The opinion is unanimous of all nine judges in the bench that is significant in many ways,” he said.

Legal experts said that while the court gave an opinion on Bhutto’s trial and procedural conduct, it had stopped short of giving its view on whether the ex-premier was guilty or not.

“This is a legal opinion of the court which is obviously significant and historic, but the court has refrained from commenting on Bhutto’s involvement in the murder case,” advocate Usama Malik told Arab News.

“The court has, in fact, given an opinion against its own institution that should also be followed by other institutions to accept their past mistakes and correct the course.”

He said the opinion remains “symbolic” if the Supreme Court fails to look into other important legal cases pending before it for adjudication, referring to a slew of criminal cases against former prime minister Imran Khan who has been in jail since August last year.

Former attorney-general of Pakistan, advocate Ashtar Ausaf, said the court’s opinion was a “very significant” one as it had revisited a judgment that had been criticized all along.

“The conviction they say was a result of procedural impropriety and violated the right of Mr.Bhutto for a fair trial,” he told Arab News. “This is a sad indictment of the criminal justice system that was suffering even today.”

He urged the government to request political parties to sit together and approve legislation that gets rid of “archaic and redundant” laws.

“The Supreme Court opinion is a wake-up call for all to do an introspection themselves,” he said.

Salahuddin Ahmed, a legal expert and president of the Sindh High Court Bar Association, cautioned that the Supreme Court could only offer an advisory opinion in response to the presidential reference but not set aside the earlier verdict.

“It may, however, opine that the earlier verdict suffered on account of bias of one or more judges,” he explained. “If so, it will not automatically set aside the earlier verdict but it will certainly give judicial acknowledgment to the widespread public and historical opinion that the Bhutto trial and execution was flawed and orchestrated by General Zia, the then military dictator.”

“In my view, acknowledging and correcting the past judicial mistakes is important to correct the course going forward,” Ahmed added.

“The decision in the Bhutto murder trial cannot be reversed, but in Pakistan’s political history, it will be proven that at another time, Pakistan’s judiciary supported anti-democratic forces,” academic and historian Dr. Riaz Ahmed Sheikh told Arab News a day before the SC verdict in the case.

ISLAMABAD: Pakistani actor Noor Xarmina has been declared ‘Miss Universe Pakistan 2024,’ after which she is poised to represent Pakistan at the 73rd Miss Universe 2024 pageant in November this year.

The announcement of Xarmina’s successful bid was made in a video published on the official YouTube channel of Miss Universe on Saturday.

The 29-year-old venture capitalist-turned-actor, who has studied biology and business, hails from Islamabad and recently moved to Pakistan.

In the video shared on Miss Universe YouTube channel, she said she wanted to bring about a “positive change” in her home country.

“I want to be an agent for positive change in two respects. The first is for our country. Pakistan is scarcely represented internationally across so many industries and I want to enhance our representation on an international stage,” Xarmina said.

“In the second respect, I want to have change for women in our country. Pakistan needs strong female leaders that can mobilize its women and empower them to create positive change in society.”

Asked if Pakistan would support Xarmina’s bid at international beauty pageants, Pakistani Information Minister Ataullah Tarar said if Xarmina has played a role in projecting Pakistan’s soft image, then a discussion can be held on this.

“I do not know about that woman, what background she has and what professional achievements she has before this, they can be looked into. If she has played her role for Pakistan’s image, Pakistan’s soft image, and Pakistan’s development, then discussion can be held on this,” he told reporters in Islamabad on Sunday.

Tarar noted that Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif recently invited Naila Kiyani, a UAE-based Pakistani mountaineer, and appreciated her.

“So, we definitely believe that whatever achievement one has, it should be recognized,” he added.

Last year, Erica Rabin became the first Pakistani woman to be crowned Miss Universe Pakistan. Prior to that, no woman from Muslim-majority Pakistan ever participated in the Miss Universe pageant.

Miss Universe Pakistan is a national beauty pageant franchise organized by the Yugen Group of Dubai to select a representative from Pakistan for the Miss Universe pageant.

ISLAMABAD: Information Minister Ataullah Tarar on Sunday denied jailed former prime minister Imran Khan’s claims that he was being denied basic prisoner rights in Pakistan, saying that the ex-premier’s “presidential suite” inside Rawalpindi’s Adiala Jail was much better than several middle-class homes in the South Asian country.

Khan, 71, has been imprisoned at Adiala Jail since August last year. All four jail sentences he received ahead of a February national election in Pakistan have been overturned or suspended in recent weeks.

He remains in jail after authorities this month issued fresh arrest warrants for him in three cases linked to violence against the military and other state installations that erupted following his brief arrest in May 2023, according to his party.

In an interview with UK publication The Sunday Times this week, Khan claimed he was “confined in a 7ft by 8ft death cell, typically reserved for terrorists” and being denied “basic prisoner and human rights such as visitation.”

Speaking at a press conference in Islamabad, Tarar denied the claims and described Khan’s prison cell as the “presidential suite” of a five-star hotel, which offered a number of “amenities.”

“This convicted person (Khan) who is the ex-chairman of PTI (Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party), he lives in a presidential suite. He has an exercise bicycle at his disposal,” the information minister said.

“He has a walking gallery at his disposal, he has a kitchen at his disposal and he gives a proper, lavish menu of what he wants to eat in the entire day. He holds three meetings weekly with his lawyers, with his friends, family, with his political leaders.”

Tarar said these were not the things normally found inside prisons and that the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz-led government in Pakistan had never victimized its political opponents.

He criticized Khan for mistreatment of his political opponents during his tenure as the prime minister from 2018 till 2022.

“Mr Khan himself incarcerated people and put them in death cells, including women. And he was responsible and he used to openly state that ‘I will not let any medicine get through to them in the prison. I will not let them have home food, I will not let them meet people’,” the minister recounted.

“He used to state it very openly and now, he is having a lavish lifestyle inside the jail. Your presidential suite inside Adiala jail is better than several middle-class homes.”

Khan’s convictions had ruled the 71-year-old out of the Feb. 8 general election as convicted felons cannot run for public office under Pakistani law. Arguably Pakistan’s most popular politician, Khan says all cases against him are motivated to keep him out of politics.

An anti-terrorism court this month canceled his bail in one of the May 9, 2023 cases registered against him and thousands of his supporters. His PTI party called it a “gimmick” aimed at prolonging his imprisonment.

KARACHI: The family of Priya Kumari, a Hindu girl who went missing in Pakistan’s southern Sindh province in 2021, and rights activists have called on provincial authorities to ensure her release and sought a clear deadline in this regard.

Seven-year-old Kumari went missing in Sindh’s Sukkur on August 19, 2021. While her family suspects no one, the southern Pakistani province has previously reported cases of forced conversions and marriage of Hindu girls, with those from poor families and low castes largely targeted.

The Minority Rights March, Aurat March, Human Rights Commission of Pakistan, Women Democratic Front, Priya Kumari Bazyabi Committee and other civil society organizations this week held a protest in Sindh’s provincial capital of Karachi to demand her release.

On Saturday, Luke Victor, a human rights defender, led a delegation, comprising Kumari’s parents, Raj Kumar and Reena Kumari, and other activists, to meet with Sindh Home Minister Zia-ul-Hassan Lanjar. They said the minister claimed Kumari was alive but offered no solid assurance for her release.

“While we welcome the details and progress shared by the JIT (joint investigation team) after three years [of Kumari’s abduction], we expect the JIT and the Sindh Home Minister to be able to provide more than just a vague promise of ‘soon’ and to commit to a specific date by which they expect to recover Priya safely,” the protest organizers said in a statement on Saturday.

“Open-ended discussions and vague commitments have occurred too many times without any results and have only eroded the trust once placed in the Sindh Police, which can only be restored with the safe recovery of Priya Kumari without further delay.”

During the meeting on Saturday, Kumari’s parents submitted a written application to the Sindh home minister for their daughter’s recovery and a transparent investigation into her abduction.

“There are hopes. The child is alive, and we have evidence,” the minister is heard saying in a video of the meeting.

“I cannot commit regarding the timeframe. She could be found tomorrow or within a week. We are trying to recover her soon,” he says, when asked for an assurance.

Luke, who led the delegation to the meeting, said on Sunday the “vague” statement suggested the authorities were either “lying or unwilling to act.”

“They are either lying about having traced Priya Kumari or they are unable to take action against the culprit, who could be influential,” he said.

ISLAMABAD: Pakistan this month will ask Chinese power plants operating in the country to shift to using coal from Pakistan’s Thar region rather than imported coal, the power minister said on Sunday.

Islamabad may also begin talks on re-profiling Pakistan’s energy sector debt during the visit to Beijing, Awais Leghari, head of the energy ministry’s Power Division, told Reuters.

Leghari will be part of the delegation to discuss structural reforms to the power sector suggested by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which last week agreed on a $7 billion bailout for the heavily indebted South Asian nation.

Neighbouring China has set up over $20 billion worth of energy projects in Pakistan.

“One of the key purposes of going along is the conversion of our imported coal units to the local coal. That would have a huge impact on the cost of energy, of power in the near future. So that is one of the biggest (items on the) agenda,” Leghari said in an interview.

Such a transition would benefit the Chinese-owned plants in Pakistan by reducing pressure on Islamabad’s foreign exchange reserves, he said, making it easier to repatriate dividends and offering a better return in dollar terms.

The transition could save Pakistan more than 200 billion Pakistani rupees ($700 million) a year in imports, translating to a decrease of as much as 2.5 Pakistani rupees per unit in the price of electricity, Leghari said.

In April a subsidiary of conglomerate Engro agreed to sell all of its thermal assets, including Pakistan’s leading coal producer, Sindh Engro Coal Mining to Pakistan’s Liberty Power. Liberty said the decision stemmed from Pakistan’s foreign exchange crunch and its indigenous coal reserve potential.

The minister declined to elaborate on the possible talks with China over re-profiling energy debt.

Pakistan’s power sector has been plagued by high rates of power theft and distribution losses, resulting in accumulating debt across the production chain — a concern raised by the IMF.

The government is implementing structural reforms to reduce “circular debt” — public liabilities that build up in the power sector due to subsidies and unpaid bills — by 100 billion Pakistani rupees ($360 million) a year, Leghari said.

Poor and middle-class households have been affected by a previous IMF bailout reached last year, which included raising power tariffs as part of the funding program that ended in April.

Annual power use in Pakistan is expected to fall consecutively for the first time in 16 years as higher tariffs curb household consumption, despite summer temperatures surging to near records, which typically boosts air conditioning and fan use.

“We have seen a shrinking demand trend in the past year or year and a half, and we are expecting this to continue unless we rationalize the price of power,” Leghari said, adding that the government’s major challenge was get demand to stop shrinking.

He said that since the per-unit tariff for power is more expensive, both urban and rural households are moving toward alternatives such as solar.

“Right now we have close to 1,000 megawatts that are on the grid itself in the form of net metering systems and others. It’s a very conservative estimate that (solar) could be five to six times more than that on the grid right now,” Leghari said.