Overview: The Vogues are an American vocal group from Turtle Creek, Pennsylvania, a suburb of Pittsburgh. The original lineup consisted of Bill Burkette (lead baritone), Don Miller (baritone), Hugh Geyer (first ...

Overview: ApologetiX is a Christian parody band from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The band was founded in 1992, and since then, has played in almost all 50 states, released 40 studio albums, and built up a fan club ...

Overview: Wild Cherry was an American funk rock band best known for their song "Play That Funky Music".

Overview: The Skyliners are an American doo-wop group from Pittsburgh. The original lineup was: Jimmy Beaumont (lead), Janet Vogel (soprano), Wally Lester (tenor), Jackie Taylor (bass voice, guitarist), Joe Ver ...

Overview: The Del-Vikings (also known as The Dell-Vikings) were an American doo-wop musical group that recorded several hit singles in the 1950s and continued to record and tour with various lineups in later decades ...

Overview: Rusted Root is an American band from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania known for their fusion of acoustic, rock, world and other styles of music, with a strong percussion section that draws from African, Latin ...

Overview: The Clarks are an American rock band from the Pittsburgh region, originating at Indiana University of Pennsylvania. Over the course of twenty years, they have produced ten studio albums, two live albums ...

Overview: The Marcels were an American doo-wop group known for turning popular music songs into rock and roll. The group formed in 1959 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and signed to Colpix Records, with lead Cornelius ...

Overview: Anti-Flag are an American punk band from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. The band is well known for political activism, focusing on anti-war activism, anti-imperialism, class struggle, human ...

Overview: Zao was a progressive rock/zeuhl band that was founded by two ex-members of Magma: Yochk'o Seffer (saxophone, clarinet) and François Cahen (piano). They were active from 1971 to 1994 and released six studio ...

Overview: The Jaggerz are an American R&B/pop/rock band from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. They came to national attention with their single "The Rapper" which was released on the Kama Sutra label. "The Rapper" ...

Overview: Punchline is an American rock band from Belle Vernon, Pennsylvania, that was formed in 1998. The band released its seventh full-length album, Thrilled, on December 4, 2015, on InVogue Records.

Overview: Once Nothing is a self-described "blue collar metal" band from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, U.S., and was signed to Solid State Records. The band claims to be Christian, but not a "Ministry band".

Overview: The Juliana Theory is an American rock quintet from Greensburg and Latrobe, Pennsylvania, United States. They signed to Tooth & Nail Records, and later to Epic Records for the release of the album Love ...

Overview: Ceann is an American Rock Irish Drinking Music band from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Most commonly known for their song Pittsburgh Makes Me Drunk.. Their influences include Pat McCurdy, The Kingston Trio ...

Overview: Pollen was a power pop band originally hailing from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. They released four albums and two split records over their eight years together.