Minus the magical braces. But seriously, almost everything else.

The first episodes of Lizzie McGuire, an American show, and Braceface, a Canadian cartoon series, both aired in 2001 and have some ridiculous similarities. First, let's take a look at the main characters of each show:

1. The main chick: Lizzie McGuire and Sharon Spitz

The tween blondes who attempted to make their way through adolescence without completely embarrassing themselves.

2. The BFF: Miranda Sanchez and Maria Wong

The sarcastic, sassy and loyal BFFs who had impeccable style and were fearless when it came to hairstyles and accessories.

3. The geek: David 'Gordo' Gordon and Connor MacKenzie

The childhood friends who were nerdy and super supportive. These were the dweebs you couldn't help but root for and you desperately wanted them to get the girl in the end.

And let's not forget about...

4. The crush: Ethan Craft and Alden Jones

The dreamy guys with perfectly-imperfect hair who made you second guess rooting for the nerd.

5. The queen bee: Kate Sanders and Nina Harper

The mean girl who ran the school and made it their mission to embarrass the main character. They were also the girls who apparently loved to wear purple turtlenecks.

Now, let's dive a little deeper shall we?

6. Lizzie and Sharon both used to be best friends with their nemesis.

7. And like many other shows about teenagers, both series included storylines about dealing with friend drama, crushes and boobs.

Especially boobs.

8. And both main characters had younger brothers.

Fun fact: Sharon's little bro Josh was voiced by Michael Cera. SO WEIRD. She also had an older brother Adam who you definitely had a massive crush on.

9. Lizzie and Sharon also had an affinity for embarassing themelves in public.

Ouch.

10. And went through a goth phase.

That lasted maybe half an episode.

11. They also chilled with some ~pretty cool~ pop stars.

*insert glorious Aaron Carter cameo here*

12. Both shows also used groovy split-screen effects.

13. "Wait, but Lizzie McGuire wasn't a cartoon!" you might say...

Remember cartoon Lizzie? BOOM.

CASE CLOSED.

Follow @BuzzFeedCanada

Share This Article