Peter Elson speaks to Lord David Alton about putting Gladstone on the city’s tourist trail

INTERNATIONAL statesman, political reformer, three times Chancellor of the Exchequer and four times British Prime Minister, William Ewart Gladstone was born in Rodney Street, Liverpool on December 29, 1809.

And on Tuesday the city will celebrate the 200th Anniversary of the ‘Grand Old Man’s’ birth.

A wreath will be laid at his statue in St John’s Gardens and a special Gladstone exhibition opened at St George’s Hall.

The statesman is a hero of Lord David Alton who feels now is the time for the city to make more of his birthplace on the tourism trail.

He says: “He was born at 62 Rodney Street and brought up in Liverpool and in the palatial Seaforth Hall. So why not package that with the historic links in his home city for visitors?

“Once again, Gladstone’s reputation is growing and Liverpool should make the most of its greatest son, especially as this month is the bicentennial of his birth.

“The city’s tourism is based on the Beatles and football, for which we’re very grateful, but there is so much more. The place is bursting with potential.

“It would have been truly fitting for our Culture year if his home was turned into a museum dedicated to his memory and achievements.”

As 62 Rodney Street is now divided into flats, even partial conversion would be difficult. Yet the former Irish Centre, or Wellington Rooms lies derelict. Surely that would be ideal?

“Gladstone’s family would have used the Wellington Rooms, which were built in 1815 for assemblies, or gatherings, of Liverpool’s great and good,” says Lord Alton.

“Better still for a museum would be St Andrew’s Scottish Presbyterian Church, in Rodney Street, which is one of three churches which Gladstone’s father John built.”

John Gladstone, of Scottish Presbyterian stock, embraced his wife’s evangelical Anglicanism and built up a formidable trading empire.

High over the town in their Rodney Street mansions these merchant princes could easily see the Mersey – the source of their wealth.

“In his childhood reminiscences Gladstone recalled the picturesque nature of the white-winged vessels waiting to catch the winds out of Liverpool,” says Lord Alton.

“But these great sailing ships represented something darker; and as the young Gladstone grew up he would have encountered the anti-slavery movement – and its leading figures, Wilberforce, Thomas Clarkson and Granville Sharp.”

With the West Indian sugar plantations a major source of the Gladstones’ wealth being worked by slaves, John Gladstone fell out with Liverpool MP William Roscoe who opposed the slave trade.

“Young William had his first political encounters at Rodney Street, in 1812,” says Lord Alton.

“His father John was one of the merchant princes who invited George Canning to accept the Tory nomination for the Liverpool constituency against Henry Brougham for the Whigs.

“They were the two greatest orators of their age. John Gladstone, now alienated by Roscoe’s intellectualism and opposition to the slave trade, deserted the Whigs to support Canning. Every evening the crowds gathered to hear Canning declaim from the Gladstones’ house in Rodney Street.

St George’s Hall was the scene of both political triumph and disaster for Gladstone as he lost his South West Lancashire seat in 1868, but kept his Greenwich one and so formed his first premiership.

Says Lord Alton: “His support for Irish Catholics, mission to pacify Ireland and desire for Irish Home Rule had put him on collision course with the Tories and the Orange Lodgers.”

On December 3, 1892, Gladstone returned to St George’s Hall to receive the freedom of the city.

Lord Alton says: “Revisiting his life in his bicentenary year, his life still shines as the scourge of tyrants and a great son of this city.”

The Gladstone Exhibition is in the Gladstone Gallery, St George’s Hall from December 29– March 7, 2010