Wondering where to watch I’ll Be There online? We have all the streaming details right here. I’ll Be There is a 2003 comedy-drama film co-written and directed by Craig Ferguson. It follows an alcoholic 1980s pop star whose life is moving in a downward spiral. However, his bad time comes to a halt when he learns about his daughter from an affair he had years ago.

Here’s how you can watch and stream I’ll Be There via streaming services such as Amazon Prime Video.

Is I’ll Be There available to watch via streaming?

Yes, I’ll Be There is available to watch via streaming on Amazon Prime Video.

The film follows a 1980s pop star, Paul Kerr, who crashes his motorcycle and lands in a psychiatric ward. There, he coincidentally meets Rebecca, a one-night stand from many years ago, who reveals that they have a daughter together named Olivia. Paul soon begins to bond with Olivia while letting go of his alcoholic habits. However, when he discovers her amazing singing voice, Rebecca’s dislike for the music industry becomes an obstacle for Olivia from wanting to chase her dreams.

In the lead, the film features Craig Ferguson as Paul Kerr, while Jemma Redgrave plays Rebecca Edmonds. We also see Charlotte Church as Olivia Edmonds and Anthony Stewart Head as Sam Gervasi.

Watch I’ll Be There streaming via Amazon Prime Video

I’ll Be There is available to watch on Amazon Prime Video. This popular streaming platform gives access to a vast library of on-demand content, including hit original content.

You can watch via Amazon Prime Video by following these steps:

Go to Amazon Prime Video

Select ‘Sign in’ and ‘Create your Amazon account’

Sign up for a Prime Video membership:

$14.99 per month or $139 per year with an Amazon Prime membership

$8.99 per month for a standalone Prime Video membership

Amazon Prime is the online retailer’s paid service that provides fast shipping and exclusive sales on products, so the membership that includes both this service and Prime Video is the company’s most popular offering. However, you can also opt to subscribe to Prime Video separately.

I’ll Be There’s synopsis is as follows:

“A comedy about a has-been rock star (Craig Ferguson) that discovers he has a teenage daughter (Charlotte Church), from a long forgotten love affair.”

NOTE: The streaming services listed above are subject to change. The information provided was correct at the time of writing.