Basic Information

Manhattan Associates India Development Centre Pvt. Ltd. Company Profile Information is operating as a Private Company - Operating. It was officially incorporated on 03 June, 2002, making the company 34 years old. The company was founded in the year 1990. It is categorised as - classified as -. Its Listing Status is -. As per the official records of Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), the Corporate Identification Number (CIN) of the company is U72200KA2002PTC030576 and Registration Number is -. Additionally, Manhattan Associates India Development Centre Pvt. Ltd. Company’s Scrip Code is . It has been duly registered at Registrar of Companies -.

Manhattan Associates India Development Centre Pvt. Ltd. company’s current MCA status is -. As per the official records, the company’s Authorised Capital is Rs. - and its Paid-up Capital is Rs. -. The last reported Annual General Meeting (ABM) of the company was held on - and the last Balance Sheet was filled on -. The list of current and past investors of the company with their respective Relationship Type, Stake Held and % Stake can be accessed here.

Manhattan Associates India Development Centre Pvt. Ltd. company’s registered address is -. The company’s registered Email ID is -. Manhattan Associates India Development Centre Pvt. Ltd. company’s website is http://www.manh.com.

The company is Doing Business As (DBA) Manhattan Associates Development Centre Pvt. Ltd.. It is operating in the Information Technology industry. As for the Business Description, Manhattan Associates India Development Centre Pvt. Ltd. is a software development company. It offers carrier management, distribution management, inventory optimization, mobile supply chain, order management, store inventory and fulfillment, planning,.

Manhattan Associates India Development Centre Pvt. Ltd. Company’s Board of Directors are of Manhattan Associates India Development Centre Pvt. Ltd. are Dennis Bomert Story, Linda Colder Pinne, Thirumala Srinivasa Ushasri The appointment date of each of the members from the Board of Directors can be accessed here.

The Key Business Developments and recent updates of Manhattan Associates India Development Centre Pvt. Ltd. corporate details can be accessed here.

As for the financial overview of the company, in the previous financial year 2021, its Net Sales was 3,966.00 and Total Revenue was 4,005.00. After factoring in the Total Expenditure of 3,215.00, Manhattan Associates India Development Centre Pvt. Ltd. Company’s EBITDA was 790.00 with an EBITDA margin of 19.73. The company’s EBIT and PAT stood at 508.00 and 323.00 respectively. The resulting PAT was 323.00 with a PAT Margin of 8.06%. The Company had a Debt-to-Equity ratio of 0.00 and Current Ratio of 6.89. Return on Capital Employed was 14.25. Access Manhattan Associates India Development Centre Pvt. Ltd. Company’s Latest Business Research Reports & prior years financial information here.

To get more information regarding the Charges of Manhattan Associates India Development Centre Pvt. Ltd., click here.