Hurricane Irma struck the Florida Keys on Sept. 10, 2017 as a Category 4 storm . The City is still making repairs to our parks and beaches and other infrastructure as well as signage.

Pictured to the right is the Public Works Crew with the City welcome sign.

Subgrant Application Public Notices for repair to Oceanfront Park, Community Park and Coco Plum Beach:

FEMA has received the subgrant applications for City of Marathon's Oceanfront Park, Community Park and Coco Plum Beach for repairs due to damages in Hurricane Irma. Pursuant to Executive Order 11988 and 44 CFR Part 9.12, final notice is hereby given for FEMA's intent to provide funding for this project under the Public Assistance (PA) Program. Click HERE to view copies of the notices.

Voluntary Home Buyout Program:

If your home was flooded as a result of Hurricane Irma or has flooded repeatedly in the past and you are hoping for a buyout, there is some important information you should know. After a search of our records, the City of Marathon believes that your structure lies below the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) and may be eligible for the voluntary buyout program. After a presidentially declared disaster, local officials may decide to request money from the state to purchase properties that have either flooded or been determined substantially damaged.

The decision to offer buyouts is made by the state using money that FEMA allocates through its Hazard Mitigation Grant Program to reduce future disaster losses. It is important to note that many flooded properties don’t qualify for a buyout, funding is limited and requests for funding may exceed available resources. Buyouts are voluntary and no one is required to sell their property. It is a lengthy process and many factors are taken into consideration before a decision is rendered. Click HERE for the Application.

The State of Florida has allocated $10 million to Monroe County through the Community Development Block Grant-Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) Voluntary Home Buyout Program. The voluntary program was created to encourage risk reduction through the purchase of residential property in high flood-risk areas impacted by Hurricane Irma. This program allows the government to purchase properties at the pre-Hurricane Irma fair market value for both the land and the structure. Priority properties are located in low- and moderate-income areas. Any existing structures will be demolished and the property will be used for permanent open space, conservation, recreation, or storm water management systems in perpetuity.

All homeowners interested in participating must sign a “Voluntary Acknowledge Form” required by the State of Florida. A copy of this form is attached in this notice.

Should you need additional information, do not hesitate to contact the City. Members of the City staff are available to assist you and to discuss the process. To schedule a meeting or discuss questions regarding the City’s assessment, please call the Planning Department at 305-289-4121 to make an appointment between the hours of 8:00 AM and 5:00 PM, Monday through Friday. Contact the City by Email at buy-out@ci.marathon.fl.us Click HERE for the Voluntary Acknowledge form and HERE for the Application. For the Program Notice, Click HERE.

As the focus turns toward long-term recovery from Hurricane Irma, survivors have many resources available from nonprofits and government agencies to assist with unmet needs. Twenty-six Long Term Recovery Groups across the state, supported by a wide variety of nonprofits and FEMA Voluntary Agency Liaisons, are helping Irma survivors connect with those resources.

CDBG-DR Infrastructure Repair & Mitigation Program is NOW CLOSED.

The Florida Department of Economic Opportunity's (DEO) Rebuild Florida Infrastructure Repair Program is now closed. It was launched with $85,819,653 to fund infrastructure restoration and improvement projects in communities impacted by Hurricane Irma. The funding was provided by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Community Development Block Grant-Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) Program to address unmet disaster recovery needs related to damage from Hurricane Irma. Eligible counties, municipalities, water management districts and water authorities located in the areas that experienced Hurricane Irma storm damage were eligible to apply for funding. Click HERE for the City of Marathon's proposed project costs.

The State of Florida has allocated $85 Million to the Infrastructure Repair and Mitigation Program funded through the Community Development Block Grant-Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR). The goal of the program is to repair damage to infrastructure while mitigating against future damage to make the community more resilient. The City of Marathon proposes applying for $6.259 Million to harden the City’s wastewater infrastructure at each of its five (5) wastewater treatment facilities as well as to improve connectivity between the Plants in the event of an emergency, including major storm events. Hard copies may be obtained upon request at the Marathon City Hall, 9805 Overseas Highway Marathon.

Survivors Encouraged to Stay in Touch with FEMA

Survivors who registered for disaster assistance following Hurricane Irma should stay in touch with FEMA. Missing or outdated information, such as phone numbers or addresses, can delay help.

The easiest way for survivors to update an application, check the status or provide missing information is to create an account at gov or call the FEMA Helpline (800-621-3362) for voice or 711 VRS, or 800-662-7585

What Substantial Damage Means to Florida Disaster Survivors

Substantial damage is a specific term that applies to a damaged structure in a Special Flood Hazard Area – or floodplain – for which the total cost of repairs is 50 percent or more of the structure’s market value before the disaster occurred.

The decision about a structure being substantially damaged is made at a local government level, generally by a building official or floodplain manager.

Once a determination on the percentage of damage is made, local officials then share that information with the property owners if their structure is substantially damaged.

If a building in a floodplain is determined to be substantially damaged, it must be brought into compliance with local floodplain management regulations.

Before Making Major Repairs, Check with Your Local Building Department

All property owners should check with local building officials to determine if permits for repair are required before beginning the work. Depending on local codes and ordinances, there can be consequences for not complying with the permitting process.

Other Sources of Assistance

Survivors with unmet needs may call 2-1-1.

Volunteering and Donations

To donate or volunteer, go to volunteerflorida.org or call 800-FL-Help-1

Legal Services – Florida Bar Association

Free legal assistance is available to low-income Florida disaster survivors. Call 866-550-2929 or visit floridalegal.org/irma/.

Survivors Cautioned to Beware of Fraud and Scams

Survivors can report suspicious activity or disaster fraud by contacting DHS OIG at 800-323-8603, TTY 844-889-4357.

Survivors can also report fraudulent activity to the state to the following hotlines: Attorney General’s Price Gouging Hotline 866-966-7226, Unlicensed Activity Hotline (DBPR): 866-532-1440 (inside Florida) or 850-488-6603 (outside Florida).

FEMA Public Assistance Grant Program in Florida

1,202 Requests for Public Assistance have been submitted to FEMA; 1,034 deemed eligible in Grants Manager.

More information about the Public Assistance Program is available at fema.gov/public-assistance-local-state-tribal-and-non-profit and www.fema.gov/news-release/2018/01/02/fema-expands-public-assistance-elig...

The State of Florida has allocated $85 Million to the Infrastructure Repair and Mitigation Program funded through the Community Development Block Grant-Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR). The goal of the program is to repair damage to infrastructure while mitigating against future damage to make the community more resilient. The City of Marathon proposes applying for $6.259 Million to harden the City’s wastewater infrastructure at each of its five (5) wastewater treatment facilities as well as to improve connectivity between the Plants in the event of an emergency, including major storm events. Hard copies may be obtained upon request at the Marathon City Hall, 9805 Overseas Highway Marathon.

Subgrant Application for City of Marathon's Wastewater Treatment Plant Repairs due to Hurricane Irma Damages:

The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has received the subgrant application for City of Marathon’s Waste Water Treatment Plants repairs due to damages in Hurricane Irma (DR-4337-FL PW 06237). Pursuant to Executive Order 11988 and 44 CFR Part 9.12, final notice is hereby given of FEMA’s intent to provide funding for this project under the Public Assistance (PA) Program. An initial disaster-wide Public Notice was published October 06, 2017 for Hurricane Irma. Comments and other information received were fully evaluated by FEMA along with evaluation of social, economic, environmental, and safety considerations. This notice serves as a project-specific final notice for FEMA’s funding action located within the floodplain. Funding for the proposed project will be conditional upon compliance with all applicable federal, tribal, state and local laws, regulations, floodplain standards, permit requirements and conditions. This action complies with the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) requirements.

Subgrant Application Public Notices for repair to Sombrero & Coco Plum Beaches:

The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has received the subgrant applications for City of Marathon’s Coco Plum Beach and Sombrero Beach engineered beach repair due to damages in Hurricane Irma (DR-4337-FL PW 06480). Pursuant to Executive Order 11988 and 44 CFR Part 9.12, final notices were given of FEMA’s intent to provide funding for this project under the Public Assistance (PA) Program.