Bonnie Smith

Executive Director

Bonnie Smith joined the Stuhr Museum Foundation as Executive Director in June of 2018. Prior to joining the foundation, Bonnie served 7 years as the Development Director for the Heartland United Way. Bonnie is actively involved across the community having served as President of Grand Island Noon Rotary, Vice-President of Christmas Cheer, PR Chair of Overland Trails Council Boy Troop 119, and graduating from Leadership Tomorrow (Class 27). Bonnie currently serves on the Grand Island Children’s Museum Board, Christmas Cheer Board and remains an active member of Rotary. She also has extensive experience in the for-profit world, having worked at Principal Financial Group in Retirement and Investment Services, attaining her Series 6 and Series 7 securities licenses. While at Principal, she served as the Loaned Executive to the Heartland United Way, as well as serving as one of the founding members of the Principal Diversity Employees Resource Group. Originally from “The Biggest Little City in the World” (Reno, Nevada), she has called Grand Island home for the past 25 years. She is married to her best friend and favorite word-Smith, has five children, two grandchildren, and loves to spend time traveling to connect with old friends, new friends, and her rapidly growing family.

Sam Scheuler

Foundation Assistant Director

Sam joined the Stuhr Museum Foundation as the Communications Coordinator in December of 2019, her talents were quickly revealed and she was promoted to Foundation Giving Director after just one year. She received her Bachelor of Science in Psychology from Nebraska Wesleyan University in May of 2016. Sam is an active participant of Grand Island Noon Rotary and a graduate of Leadership Tomorrow | Class 36. In her spare time, Sam enjoys spending time with her husband Travis golfing, traveling, and watching Husker Football & Volleyball. You can also probably catch her taking (too many) pictures of her fur babies; Skye, Harper & Mayci.

Megan Cure

Development Director

Megan has worked in the nonprofit sector for a decade and half and has made genuine and meaningful connections while working to make a difference in the greater Grand Island community. Megan’s caring, thoughtful, and sound leadership serves her well in her donor-centric role. Megan brings calm and inclusive direction to the many Foundation hosted events and works tirelessly to ensure success while maintaining positive relationships. She loves spending time outdoors and participating in community activities.

Deb Holmes

Administrative and Communications Coordinator

Deb Holmes joined the Stuhr Museum Foundation in September 2023. Deb comes to the Foundation after nearly 30 years with Principal Financial Group where she held various positions throughout the years including roles in customer service, training, administration, and staffing/security. During her time with Principal, she also had the opportunity to serve as a Loaned Executive to the Heartland United Way.

Born and raised in western Nebraska, Deb has called Grand Island home for the last 35 years. She is a graduate of Spencer School of Business and earned her Bachelor of Science in Business Management from Bellevue University in 2001. Deb and her husband, Doug, are the proud parents of their daughter and son, Sydney and Gabriel.

Don Deitemeyer

Don Deitemeyer Real Estate Leasing Manager for Lamar Advertising in Grand Island. Born and raised in Lincoln Nebraska moving to Doniphan in 1974. Worked in manufacturing for 30 years in Lincoln and Doniphan. Graduate of University of Nebraska with Comprehensive Business Administration Degree. Have never found a project or volunteer opportunity that I don’t like because of the wonderful giving people of Hall County. Enjoy being on the Stuhr Board as the Stuhr Museum provides an incredible quality of life value to living in the community.

Jay Gnuse

Jay Gnuse is a Project Manager in IT at Chief Industries, Inc. Jay graduated from Kearney State College in 1986 with a Bachelor of Computer Science. Jay was originally from Arlington, Nebraska, but has lived in Grand Island since 1985 when he started at Chief Industries, Inc. as an Intern.

Over the years in Grand Island, Jay has served on several organizations in the community including Leadership Tomorrow (now Leadership Unlimited), Riverside Golf Club, Career Pathways Institute, Grow Grand Island, CCC IT Advisory board, and GIPS Academy Advisory Board.

Jay lives with his wife Deb and two Soft Coated Wheaton Terriers. Deb is a retired teacher. Jay and Deb are proud parents of Jeremy and Trevor. Jay and Deb enjoy golfing and traveling.

Kay Grimminger

Born and raised in Grand Island, Kay has a BS in Art Education from the University of Nebraska Lincoln. She followed up her BS with an MS in Art Education with an emphasis in Ceramics from University of Nebraska Kearney. She also has an endorsement in Gifted Education. She spent forty years in Education teaching Junior High and Senior High Art in Grand Island and Brighton, CO. She also coordinated the HAL (High Ability Learners) program in Grand Island during her last few years in Education.

Grant Harden

Past-President

Grant Harden is a tax accountant with Schroeder & Schreiner, P.C. His areas of expertise includes income tax preparation for individuals, partnerships and corporations. He is experienced in financial statement preparation, compilation, and review procedures for small businesses. He is also experienced in recordkeeping accounting services, use of accounting software systems and all aspects of the payroll function. Grant graduated with a double major from Doane University in December 2016. He received a Bachelor of Arts Degree in both Business Administration and Accounting. He and his wife Katie reside in Grand Island and are the proud parents to two fur babies, Finneas and Gimley. Grant is a member of the Grand Island Area Chamber of Commerce Young Professionals, a QuickBooks Online Pro Advisor and an active member of Third City Christian Church.

Dr. Marcie Kemnitz

President

Dr. Marcie Kemnitz serves as the president for the Grand Island campus as well as the Vice President for Enrollment Management, Student Success and Health Science divisions at Central Community College. Dr. Kemnitz is a South Dakota native having moved to Nebraska in 2009. She is a graduate of South Dakota State University and earned a Master of Science degree in Administrative Studies as well as a Doctor of Education degree in Educational Leadership from the University of South Dakota.

Dr. Kemnitz is active in the community and is currently serving on several boards including the Grand Island Area Chamber of Commerce, CHI St Francis Medical Center Community Board and was a former chair of the YWCA Board of Directors. She and her husband, Chris, have two grown sons and two daughters-in-law.

Shane Labenz

Shane is an Intern Architect with CMBA Architects with a bright future here in Grand Island, aspiring to move into a leadership position with the company. Shane originates from Hastings, Nebraska and received his Master’s Degree in Architecture from the University of Nebraska – Lincoln. Since moving to Grand Island, he has been driven to become involved in the community, being named to the Chamber of Commerce’s Top 35 Under 35 in 2018 and serves as the Chair of the Young Professionals group for 2019. Outside of work, Shane stays active as a soccer referee, having worked State High School Championships, NAIA and NCAA collegiate soccer games, and was selected to officiate a National Championship tournament in Kansas City this summer.

Erin Marsh

Upon graduation from Doane University, Erin and her husband, Andy, returned to their hometown of Grand Island where she worked for Principal Financial Group for 18 years. In March of 2017, she left Principal to join Andy in their family business, Keystone Properties, where they own and manage multi-family rental property. They have two children, McKenna and Colton.

Erin is a graduate of Hall County Leadership tomorrow and serves on the Board of Directors of the Grand Island Public Schools Foundation. She also enjoys volunteering with the Grand Island Literacy Council, the St Pauls Lutheran Church Community Christmas Dinner, and as a scholarship reviewer for the Grand Island Community Foundation. While at Principal she served as the United Way Loaned Executive.

She is excited to serve the Stuhr Museum Board of Trustees where her family has a long history with the museum. She and Andy have twice served as the Annual Fund Drive Co-chairs, hosted development events, and done clean up work on museum grounds while also serving on the Special Events committee.

Anthony May

Past-President

Anthony May is an owner and digital director at IdeaBank Marketing in Hastings, NE. With more than a decade of web experience, Anthony and the IdeaBank team deliver beautiful, functional, and effective websites for businesses and organizations across Nebraska.

Anthony is focused on helping clients meet their goals with integrated marketing strategies combining mobile, email, search, and social marketing techniques. Constantly monitoring the rapidly-changing world of marketing allows Anthony to provide cutting-edge strategies which boost business and visibility for IdeaBank’s clients.

Anthony holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Broadcast Journalism from Hastings College. Anthony is a former adjunct instructor of Graphic Design and Advertising at Hastings College and one of the founders of Steeple Brewing Co., located in Downtown Hastings. IdeaBank Marketing is a full-service agency that has been providing comprehensive marketing and advertising services for business and industries in Nebraska and surrounding states since 1982. The agency employs a staff of 13 in its historic, downtown Hastings location.

Gina Suchanek

Gina Suchanek was raised on a farm outside of Cairo, and lives in Grand Island. She’s been with Principal Financial Group since 1990 in a variety of roles.

Gina is married to Mike, and they have two sons, a daughter-in-law, a granddaughter, with another grandchild on the way.

Gina has been on the Trinity Lutheran School Board, Heartland Lutheran High School Board, been a Boy Scout Leader, and a current member of the Stuhr Museum Foundation Board. She is a member of Grace Lutheran Church, Stuhr Museum and Grand Island Liederkranz.

Shane Wissmann

Shane Wissmann is a Senior Wealth Advisor, Principal at Allen Capital Group, and CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER™ professional. He and his team utilize advanced wealth management strategies to help clients build wealth unique to their circumstances.

Shane graduated Summa Cum Laude from Wayne State College and earned a bachelor’s degree with concentrations in Finance and Economics. He was recognized as the “Outstanding Business Graduate” in his graduating class.

Shane has served as the treasurer and ethics officer for the Heartland United Way and president of Grand Island – Kiwanis. He currently serves on the Grand Island Public Schools Foundation Board. He is a Hall County Leadership Unlimited graduate and was recognized as one of the Top 35 Under 35 by the Grand Island Chamber of Commerce.

Shane and his wife, Leah, have two children and enjoy raising them in Grand Island.