Cape Town recently saw an unusual amount of heavy rainfall, resulting in a rapid 20% rise in the levels of its main dams within just one week. Currently, the major dams in Cape Town are at a high capacity of 95.2%.

Regardless, the City of Cape Town is continuing on its mission to build a water-secure future for residents.

RECORD RAINFALL

In the first 15 days of July 2024, Wemmershoek Dam received more rainfall (460 mm) than the previous record of 433.5mm for the month of July since 1992.

Dam levels overall increased by 25% while last year June is the only month since 2008 where it rose more than this, by 30%, the City said in a statement.

Despite these gains, the City’s Water and Sanitation Directorate is investing in Cape Town’s New Water Programme (NWP) to build a resilient and water-secure future in the face of climate change and unpredictable rainfall.

“We appreciate the heavy rain that has been filling our dams but we cannot allow this to give us a false sense of water security for the future,” said the City’s Mayoral Committee Member for Water and Sanitation, Councillor Zahid Badroodien.

The City learned some hard lessons during the Cape Town water crisis of 2015 – 2020 which almost saw a total collapse of its resevoir system.

City officials scrambled to establish water augmentation projects, which have since turned into longer-term investments.

“Cape Town has learnt that we cannot solely rely on dams for water security, so the City is busy investing in its New Water Programme,” Badroodien noted.

“This includes projects such as desalination, groundwater schemes and re-use, which are at various stages of progress.”

“Collectively through these projects we are working towards increasing supply by an extra 300 million litres of new water every day by 2030.”

NEW WATER PROGRAMME

Badroodien says these projects are part of the City’s long-term Water Strategy to help reduce Cape Town’s dependence on rainfall and dam storage as a primary water supply – to navigate future climate shocks and droughts.

Cape Town’s NWP includes:

Water re-use: Purified recycled wastewater providing 70-100 million litres daily.

Desalination: Converting seawater into 50-70 million litres of freshwater daily.

Clearing invasive species and river management: Harnessing river water for an additional 30 million litres daily.

Groundwater: Boreholes and springs supplying over 100 million litres daily.