'Somebody I Used To Know' star Alison Brie: The nudist aspect is just pulled from my real life

etimes.in / Feb 11, 2023, 17:19 (IST)

Hollywood actress Alison Brie and her husband Dave Franco are back with another collaboration with their Valentine's release 'Somebody I Used To Know'. Fresh out of the success of their horror film 'The Rental', the couple team up as writer and director for this tale that brings back the essence of a classic rom-com with updated and empowered characters.

Alison Brie's husband Dave Franco helps her pick roles

PTI / Jun 28, 2017, 11:10 (IST)

Actress Alison Brie said her husband actor Dave Franco has a discerning eye when it comes to choosing parts and it is he who has often helped her zeroing in on a project.

Emmy winner Rosamund Pike joins cast of magical 'Now You See Me 3'

ANI / May 03, 2024, 13:53 (IST)

Golden Globe and Emmy winner Rosamund Pike joins the cast of the third installment of the magic-themed franchise, 'Now You See Me'. While her character details are yet to be revealed, the film will feature returning stars Jesse Eisenberg, Woody Harrelson, Isla Fisher, Dave Franco, and Morgan Freeman, along with newcomers Justice Smith, Dominic Sessa, and Ariana Greenblatt. The plot remains undisclosed, but the movie will reintroduce the Four Horsemen illusionists and introduce a new generation of magicians. Produced by Bobby Cohen and Secret Hideout's Alex Kurtzman, Lionsgate's Meredith Wieck and Erin Jones-Wesley oversee the project. Pike, acclaimed for her role in 'Saltburn', will lead in 'Hallow Road' and 'In the Grey'. She portrays Moiraine Damodred in Prime Video's 'The Wheel of Time' and has won accolades for 'I Care a Lot' and 'State of the Union'.

Kristen Stewart and Katy M. O'Brian unleash passion and turmoil in 'Love Lies Bleeding' trailer

etimes.in / Dec 20, 2023, 12:00 (IST)

The film promises a gripping exploration of love, ambition, and the consequences that follow, all set against the backdrop of a tumultuous criminal underworld. Adding to the intrigue is the presence of Ed Harris, who takes on the role of Lou's menacing and gun-slinging father. His character becomes the focus of FBI pursuit, adding layers of suspense and intrigue to the storyline

Ruben Fleischer to direct 'Now You See Me 3'

PTI / Sep 30, 2022, 11:49 (IST)

Filmmaker Ruben Fleischer has been tapped to direct the third installment in the 'Now You See Me' franchise. According to the reports, Lionsgate Motion Picture Group president Nathan Kahane announced the new film, which will be penned by screenwriter Seth Grahame-Smith.

Actor James Franco admits to sexual misconduct allegations, says, 'I did sleep with students'

PTI / Dec 23, 2021, 17:00 (IST)

Nearly four years after he was accused of sexually inappropriate behavior, actor-writer James Franco has broken his silence admitting to the claims he denied initially, saying it was "wrong" to sleep with the students. The Oscar nominee, known for films like Sam Raimi's 'Spider-Man' series, 'Pineapple Express' and 'The Interview', also revealed he has struggled with sex addiction for years after becoming sober from alcohol at a young age.