Dell Inc. is an American technology company that develops, sells, repairs, and supports computers and related products and services. Dell is owned by its parent company, Dell Technologies.

Dell sells personal computers (PCs), servers, data storage devices, network switches, software, computer peripherals, HDTVs, cameras, printers, and electronics built by other manufacturers. The company is known for how it manages its supply chain and electronic commerce. This includes Dell selling directly to customers and delivering PCs that the customer wants. Dell was a pure hardware vendor until 2009 when it acquired Perot Systems. Dell then entered the market for IT services. The company has expanded storage and networking systems. It is now expanding from offering computers only to delivering a range of technology for enterprise customers.

Dell is a subsidiary of Dell Technologies, Inc., a publicly traded company (NASDAQ: DELL), as well as a component of the NASDAQ-100 and S&P 500. It is the third-largest personal computer vendor as of January 2021. Dell is ranked 31st on the Fortune 500 list in 2022, up from 76th in 2021. It is also the sixth-largest company in Texas by total revenue, according to Fortune magazine. It is the second-largest non-oil company in Texas.

In 2015, Dell acquired the enterprise technology firm EMC Corporation. Dell and EMC became divisions of Dell Technologies. Dell EMC sells data storage, information security, virtualization, analytics, and cloud computing.

List of Dell marketing slogans

Be direct (1998-2001)

Easy as Dell (2001-2004)

Get more out of now (2004–2005)

It's a Dell (2005-2006)

Dell. Purely You (2006–2007)

Yours is Here (2007–2011)

The power to do more (2011–present)

Products

Scope and brands

The corporation markets specific brand names to different market segments.

Its Business/Corporate class includes:

OptiPlex (office desktop computer systems)

Dimension (home desktop computer systems)

Vostro (office/small business desktop and notebook systems)

n Series (desktop and notebook computers shipped with Linux or FreeDOS installed)

Latitude (business-focused notebooks)

Precision (workstation systems and high-performance "Mobile Workstation" notebooks),

PowerEdge (business servers)

PowerVault (direct-attach and network-attached storage)

Force10 (network switches)

PowerConnect (network switches)

Dell Compellent (storage area networks)

EqualLogic (enterprise class iSCSI SANs)

Dell EMR (electronic medical records)

Dell's Home Office/Consumer class includes:

Inspiron (budget desktop and notebook computers)

XPS (high-end desktop and notebook computers)

G Series (high/medium-performance gaming laptops)

Alienware (high-performance gaming systems)

Venue (Tablets Android / Windows)

Dell's Peripherals class includes USB keydrives, LCD televisions, and printers; Dell monitors includes LCD TVs, plasma TVs and projectors for HDTV and monitors. Dell UltraSharp is further a high-end brand of monitors.

Dell service and support brands include the Dell Solution Station (extended domestic support services, previously "Dell on Call"), Dell Support Center (extended support services abroad), Dell Business Support (a commercial service-contract that provides an industry-certified technician with a lower call-volume than in normal queues), Dell Everdream Desktop Management ("Software as a Service" remote-desktop management, originally a SaaS company founded by Elon Musk's cousin, Lyndon Rive, which Dell bought in 2007), and Your Tech Team (a support-queue available to home users who purchased their systems either through Dell's website or through Dell phone-centers).

Discontinued products and brands include Axim (PDA; discontinued April 9, 2007), Dimension (home and small office desktop computers; discontinued July 2007), Dell Digital Jukebox (MP3 player; discontinued August 2006), Dell PowerApp (application-based servers), Dell Optiplex (desktop and tower computers previously supported to run server and desktop operating systems), Dell Unix (an SVR4-based Unix operating system for its Dell-branded PCs and workstations; discontinued in 1993) and Dell Mobile Connect（Windows Mobile application; discontinued July 31st, 2022).

Images for kids

Michael Dell (founder)

The company sponsors Dell Diamond, the home stadium of the Round Rock Express, the AAA minor league baseball affiliate of the Texas Rangers major league baseball team.

See also