Abstract

One of the current expectations of industry requires universities to provide technically competent engineering professionals capable of immediate assimilation into a team-based working environment. The only practical means of affording students a team-based learning experience involves having students function as a team member in a course(s) taken during their college experience. One of the major challenges of using student teams focuses on providing the student team with some definite "reward" for their collective performance while ensuring the integrity of individual learning. Without a grading component serving as a team "reward", little incentive exists for students to participate fully and learn the underlying concepts, skills and synergistic potential associated with being a member of a high performance team. This paper presents a method for course grading based primarily on the student team's performance. It resulted from numerous attempts to have students accept "ownership" for developing the method of determining the course grade because a basic principle of the team concept is to create a sense of job ownership. The paper explains how each team member's individual performance is integrated with the team's performance to produce the final course grade. The final course grade received by the student is weighted so approximately two-thirds of it results from the team's effort with the remainder derived solely from the student's individual performance.

Index Terms

A team centered grading system based primarily on the team's performance

Social and professional topics

Professional topics

Computing education

Computing education programs

Computer science education

Index terms have been assigned to the content through auto-classification.

Recommendations

Supporting Team Submissions and Peer Grading within Submitty: (Abstract Only)

SIGCSE '18: Proceedings of the 49th ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education

Submitty is an open source programming assignment submission system from the Rensselaer Center for Open Source Software (RCOS) at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) accessed via an online interface. Submitty allows students to submit their code ...

Information & Contributors

Information

Published In

7 pages

ISBN:0780340868

Publisher

IEEE Computer Society

United States

Publication History

Published: 05 November 1997

Qualifiers

Article

Contributors

Other Metrics

Bibliometrics & Citations

Bibliometrics

Article Metrics

0

Total Citations

0

Total Downloads

Downloads (Last 12 months)0

Downloads (Last 6 weeks)0

Other Metrics

Citations

View Options

View options

Media

Figures

Other

Tables

Share

Share

Share this Publication link

Copied!

Copying failed.

Share on social media

Affiliations

R. Martinazzi

Eng. Technol. Div., Pittsburgh Univ., Johnstown, PA, USA

Request permissions Authors Info & Affiliations