Security Federal Bank Refinance now while rates are low. Long-term financing is available. Call Carmella Price or Sheila Morton for details (423) 543-1000 www.secfed.com Prep Basketball: Lady ’Dogs Rock On Page 1C Community Matters Francis Gary Powers: A Memorable Visit Page 9A Good Morning Julie Ritchie Elizabethton Sunday, February 28, 2010 • Volume 80 - No. 49 ONLINE: Visit www.starhq.com for more photos, video and local news 50¢ Daily - $1.50 Sunday Obituaries ...................4A Editorials .................5A Lifestyles ....................1B Sports........................ 1C Stock ........................ 6C Classified ..................7C Weather ................. 12A Clyde Austin Elizabethton Robert W. Burrow Beaufort, S.C. James “Red” Glover Hampton Ivan E. Morley Elizabethton Photo by Suzanne Whitehead Snow closes Hwy. 143 Saturday THP Trooper Greg Marlowe is pictured on Highway 143, which was closed most of the day Saturday. Traffic was stopped after an 18-wheeler, trying to bust a trail across Roan Mountain, lost traction at the one-mile marker just below the top when the snow became too deep to travel in. The road was snow covered, beginning about 4 miles from the top of the Roan at Carvers Gap. A “C” class wrecker with snow chains was called to help pull the semi-rig to the top, where the driver would have a downhill grade into North Carolina. This photo was taken at mile marker 3, where snow is piled over the guardrail. Marlowe said he hoped to open the road around 3 p.m. after TDOT worked to remove more of the snow. “Even then, the road is not recommended for travel. Only 4-wheel drives or vehicles with chains are recommended, and then with caution,” Trooper Marlowe said. He noted that the beauty of the Roan in any weather is hard to ignore for some. Also, cross country skiing conditions are great right now, and the snow draws many hikers to the Appalachian Trail, located nearby. K9 Yoris funeral planned for Thursday BY ROBERT SORRELL STAR STAFF rsorrell@starhq.com For the past several days the City of Elizabethton and Tetrick Funeral Home have been planning a memorial service for K9 Yoris, who died following an incident which is still under investigation. Yoris, a two-year veteran of the Elizabethton Police Department, will be honored at Tetrick Funeral Home on Thursday evening. Visitation is scheduled for 5:30 to 7 p.m. and the memorial service is planned for 7 p.m. Terina Westberg of Tetrick said, “All police officers, firefighters and emergency medical personnel serve the community at great risk of injury or death. In the event any such servant of Carter County dies in the line of action, we will furnish our Investigation of his death continues staff services, facilities and equipment for a traditional funeral service with a steel casket and a steel burial vault at no charge.” Numerous law enforcement officials and canine teams from around the region, as well as members of the community, are expected to be part of the ceremony. Yoris’s handler, Officer Shane Darling and family, will also be present. “We are not sure how many people are going to show up for the ceremony,” Westberg said. “Tetrick is going to handle Yoris’s funeral like any regular police officer.” Graveside services are scheduled for 11 a.m. Friday at the Washington County Memory Gardens off Boones Creek Road in Johnson City. The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation and district attorney’s Obituary for Sgt. K9 Yoris Elizabethton Police Department’s Sgt. K9 Yoris, a four-year-old Belgian Malinois, passed away on Sunday, February 7, 2010, as a result of injuries he received on Saturday, February 6. Sgt. Yoris would have been a two-year veteran of the Elizabethton Police Department, having joined the department in June 2008. Patrolman Shane Darling, the Darling family, members of the Elizabethton Police Department and the citizens of Elizabethton and Carter County are mourning his loss. A memorial service for K9 Sgt. Yoris will be held on Thursday, n See OBIT, 12A (423) 282-9990 111 Broyles Drive, Suite 2 • Johnson City Get with the program: • Weekly Weigh-in • Vitamins B-12 & Folic Acid • Multi-Vitamins • One-on-one Counseling • Diet Information • Behavioral Guidance • Medical Supervision • Metabolism Boosters office are investigating the events that led to the death of Yoris. On Saturday, Feb. 6, a group of ju- Sgt. K9 Yoris veniles and Yoris were involved n See YORIS, 12A Obituaries Weather PHENTERMINE $ 44 50 S. Carl Nidiffer Elizabethton Robert M. Ross Jr. Elizabethton Special 30 mg black capsules 37.5 mg tablets 30 count Photo by Danny Davis Michael Doe Folden, manager of the local Sav-A-Lot Grocery, was the driver of the 2004 Fort Taurus, which struck a 2007 Kia Sorento Thursday night. Folden, who was driving in the wrong lane of traffic, was unresponsive when officers arrived at the scene. He was transported to Sycamore Shoals Hospital, where he died at 10:36 p.m. Three persons in the Kia Sorento were injured. Local store manager dies following Highway 67 wreck FROM STAFF REPORTS A Johnson City man died following a head-on collision on Highway 67 in Elizabethton on Thursday night. Elizabethton Police Department officers responded to Highway 67 in the area between the Milligan Highway and the golf course around 9:30 p.m. in reference to an accident with injuries. Upon investigation, it was determined that a 2004 Ford Taurus, driven by Michael Doe Folden, Johnson City, was traveling westbound in the eastbound lanes of Highway 67 and struck a 2007 Kia Sorento in the left rear corner panel. The Sorento was driven by Wendy Watson of Elizabethton. After impact, the Sorento went into an uncontrolled skid and a 14-year-old juvenile was ejected from the vehicle. The Sorento continued down an embankment, and struck a culvert before coming to a final rest. After impact, the Ford Taurus crossed the median and came to rest in the westbound lanes of Highway 67. n See WRECK, 12A Assistant Ed Commissioner explains Race to the Top BY STEVE BURWICK STAR STAFF sburwick@starhq.com Bruce Opie, assistant commissioner of legislation and policy with the Tennessee Department of Education, spoke to area educators and county officials about the upcoming Race to the Top program during the monthly Education Workforce Development Committee meeting held Friday at the Pine Room of Sycamore Shoals Hospital. Race to the Top is a $4.35 billion federal grant program to help states enact reforms in four areas: adopting standards and assessments that prepare students to succeed in college and the workplace and to compete in the global economy; building data systems that measure student growth and success and inform teachers and principals about how they can improve instruction; recruiting, developing, rewarding and retaining effective teachers and principals, especially where they are needed most; and turning around lowest-achieving schools. Opie outlined the nuts and bolts of the program, which promises to provide $485 million over a four-year period to Tennessee if the state is one of the first five to be selected to receive the funding. Half of the grant would go directly to the schools, while the other half would be retained by the state, some of that to be used to provide further assistance to the schools. Carter County’s estimated share would be about $1.6 million, while Elizabethton would receive about $737,800. Opie said a 15-member advisory committee would be established to advise the state education board on decisions regarding yearly evaluations of n See EDUCATION, 12A Rachel S. Winters Elizabethton Saturday Clinics Available Michael Wysor, MD, PHD, on premises Wednesdays and is available by appointment other days. Low Tonight High Tomorrow 28 45