1. PERMENDIES

2. Life of Parmenides Parmenides was born in the Greek colony of Elea (southern Italy). He was the founder of the School of Elea, which also included Melissus of Samos and the young Zeno of Elea (who was about 25 years younger than Parmenides and may also have been his eromenos or adolescent lover, a common tradition of ancient Greece).

3. contributions  He believed that all changes are an illusion.  There is only one reality, it is finite, uniform, motionless, fixed and can be understood only through reason.  Knowledge is attained only through rational thought because sensory experience provides only illusion.He supported it with logic. Zeno who was his disciple, used logical arguments to show that motion was an illusion.

4. PYTHAGORAS

5. Life of Pythagoras  Pythagoras founded a philosophical and religious school that had many followers. Pythagoras was the head of the society with an inner circle of followers who lived permanently with the Society, had no personal possessions and were vegetarians. They were taught by Pythagoras himself and obeyed strict rules. Pythagoras was a Greek philosopher who made important developments in mathematics, astronomy, and the theory of music. The theorem now known as Pythagoras's theorem was known to the Babylonians 1000 years earlier but he may have been the first to prove it. (570BC-490BC)

6. Contributions He postulated that the basic explanation for everything is the universe was found in number and in numerical relationships. Mathematical Principles: He and his followers applied mathematical principles to almost every aspect of human existence, creating a great muddle of religious mysticism, music, mathematics, medicine and cosmology. Dualism: The Pythagoreans assumed a dualistic universe. One part abstract, permanent and intellectually knowable and the other part is empirical ,changing, and known through senses. His philosophy provides one of the first clear cut mind-body dualisms in the history of western thoughts