1. Introduction ⇫ ¶

Nicaraguan Creole English is the oldest English-lexifier creole in the Americas. Subsequent migration patterns have nevertheless obscured exact genetic relationships with the other Western Caribbean creoles, e.g. the closely related creoles of San Andres and Old Providence (see Bartens) and Belize (see Escure). It is spoken in the R.A.A.S. (Región Autónoma Atlántico Sur ‘Southern Atlantic Autonomous Region’) and R.A.A.N. (Región Autónoma Atlántico Norte ‘Northern Atlantic Autonomous Region’), roughly comprising the area formerly known as the “Miskito Coast”, as well as in diaspora communities within Nicaragua (above all in the capital Managua) and abroad (above all in the United States). Estimates of speaker numbers vary between 35,000 and 50,000. The majority of speakers are ethnic Creoles but Nicaraguan Creole English is also the L1 of the Rama (whose variety is the most divergent of the varieties of Nicaraguan Creole English), the Nicaraguan Garifuna and some Miskito. It is spoken as an L2 by other Miskito and some Mestizos.1

2. Sociohistorical background ⇫ ¶

The Miskito Coast of Nicaragua was settled by the British during the 1630s. As a result, Nicaraguan Creole English can be considered one of the oldest English-based varieties in the Americas (Holm 1978: 5; 1983b: 95). During its short existence (until 1641), the Puritan community of Old Providence traded with the Miskito Coast (see survey chapter on San Andres Creole English, Bartens). It seems likely that the first African group to be incorporated by the Miskito was constituted by slaves who fled from Old Providence in 1641 when it was captured by the Spanish (Holm 1978: 179–180; 1983b: 97; 1986: 7, 10).

Nevertheless, Holm (e.g. 1983b: 97) estimates that Nicaraguan Creole English did not jell until the first half of the 18th century. Due to the forced exodus of 2,000 settlers and their slaves in 1786 to Belize, Belizean Creole constitutes a direct off-shoot of Nicaraguan Creole English (Holm 1986: 13). Since then, Nicaraguan Creole English has undergone influence from several other Western Caribbean creoles: Old Providence and San Andres served as springboards in the colonization of the Nicaraguan Corn Islands by 1810 and Pearl Lagoon, north of Bluefields, during the early 19th century. During the late 19th and early 20th century, significant numbers of Jamaicans, Cayman Islanders, San Andresans and Blacks from the Southern U.S. were recruited to work on the Miskito Coast. Due to frequent back and forth migrations, exact genetic relationships between the creole varieties in question have become obscured.

A treaty between Great Britain and the United States put the Miskito Coast under Nicaraguan protection in 1860. As a result of an 1894 revolution Nicaragua annexed the region (Holm 1983b: 98; 1986: 16). Further revolutions in 1909 and in 1926 kept the region politically unstable and the United States occupied the territory with only one nine months’ break from 1912 until 1933, a period remembered with mixed feelings by local Creoles (cf. Sujo Wilson 1991: 35–36). Although forced Hispanization started immediately after the 1894 revolution, the influx of Spanish-speaking Mestizos to the Miskito Coast drastically accelerated after the 1979 Sandinist revolution.

3. Sociolinguistic situation ⇫ ¶

Nicaraguan Creole English is spoken as an L1 by 35,000–50,000 ethnic Creoles, the Rama, Nicaraguan Garifuna, and some Miskito, and as an L2 by other Miskitos and some Mestizos (Ruiz Carrión 1998: 40; URACCAN 1998).2

Speakers themselves identify at least the variants of Bluefields, the Corn Islands, Pearl Lagoon, Rama Cay, Orinoco, and Bilwi (cf. Holm 1983b: 96; Pasanen 2004: 76). There are also Creole speakers in Bonanza, La Rosita, Siuna, and some other smaller settlements as well as in Managua and on the Pacific coast of the country in general (Decker & Keener 1998). It is commonly felt that the urban variety of Bluefields should constitute the basis for standardization and that Rama Cay Creole is the most divergent variety from the others as a result of the Rama substrate.3

Spanish is much more present in Bluefields than in rural communities. Indeed, the private sphere of rural women crystallizes as the stronghold of Creole. In rural communities, the language tends to be called “Creole” or “Kriol” whereas speakers in Bluefields prefer the terms “English” or “Creole English”.

Pasanen (2004: 88) considers that the sociolinguistic situation of the Coast should be described in terms of stable diglossia. This is confirmed by McLean’s (2001: 124–125) evaluation of the ethnolinguistic hierarchy of the Coast according to which Nicaraguan Creole English would constitute the low variety vis-à-vis Spanish in the Southern Autonomous Region. At present, there are nevertheless signs that this diglossia is starting to leak in a way which is favourable to Creole: In addition to efforts made by various entities to promote Creole, among them the University of the Autonomous Regions of the Caribbean Coast of Nicaragua, the majority of Pasanen’s informants were in favour of its standardization (Pasanen 2004: 100–101).4 Nicaraguan Creole English is used to an increasing degree in the churches (Decker & Keener 1998) and in bilingual education programs. Bilingual education programs were initially run in Spanish and in Standard English during the 1980s and 1990s but are now being restructured to Nicaraguan Creole English-Spanish bilingual programmes, as educators have become aware of the devastating learning results of the Standard English-Spanish curricula. However, it has been postulated that there continue to exist separate Anglo, Costeño (coastal) and Black identities within the Creole population and those most closely identifying with the Anglo identity are unlikely to be in favour of bilingual Creole-Spanish programmes any more than they were in the 1980s (cf. Freeland 2004: 111, 117). Indeed, Standard English is valued not only as an international language but also as the foundation of this facet of Creole identity as a cross of a class and an ethnic position (Freeland 1993: 75; 1999: 220). But there appears to be “a tenuous, almost mythified presence” of Standard English as a high language (alongside Spanish) in spite of the erosion of a post-creole continuum as a result of the reincorporation of the region into the Nicaraguan State from 1894 onwards (Freeland 2004: 111–113). The fact that English language satellite channels can be received better than national Nicaraguan television channels on the entire coast or that there is some radio programming in English and/or Creole does not change much with this state of affairs. As a result of the long tradition of monolingual Spanish schooling, virtually all reading is done in Spanish. For instance, Spanish language newspapers are flown to Bluefields daily. Although Creole is a strong marker of in-group identity in certain contexts, even highly educated people are not comfortable speaking English and prefer Spanish.

4. Phonology ⇫ ¶

The vowel system of Nicaraguan Creole English consists of eight phonemes, which can be identified by means of testing minimal pairs, e.g. rich [riʧ] ‘rich’ vs. riich [riːʧ] ‘reach, arrive’, and whose major allophones are depicted in Table 1.

In addition, Nicaraguan Creole English has the minor vocalic allophones [ɪ, ʊ, ɛ, ɛː, ɔ, ɔː]. For instance, [ɛ] is an allophone of /e/ triggered by the phonetic environment, as in [sɛn] ‘to send’.

The consonantal system of Nicaraguan Creole English consists of twenty-three phonemes whose major allophones are depicted in Table 2.

In addition, there are five minor allophones: [θ, ð, ɾ, ʒ, ʔ]. For example, the interdental fricatives surface as a result of decreolization in words like think and that. Finally, there are two consonantal phonemes which only occur in loanwords: /ɲ/ and /x/, e.g. nyam ‘to eat’ and José (a Spanish first name).

The orthography used at present for writing Nicaraguan Creole English, negotiated in several workshops over the period 2001–2004, is a phonemic one in spite of the initial resistance in the community against an orthography which was felt to “look too Spanish”.

5. Noun phrase ⇫ ¶

Plural marking is variable in both human and inanimate nouns. It is achieved by either postposing the 3pl pronoun dem to the noun (2) or by suffixing the English-derived plural marker -s/-z (3):

(1)Bot mai tiicha dei taak Inglish or Spanish.5

but1sg.poss teacher3pl.sbjtalk English or Spanish

‘But my teachers, they talk English or Spanish.’

(2)di likl neebor dem

art.def little neighbourpl

‘the little neighbours’

(3)Som ov di madazdon sen di piknini tu klaas.

some ofart.def mother-pl complsendart.def child to class

‘Some of the mothers have sent their children to school.’

There is an associative plural formed with the postposed plural marker dem:

(4)Mary dem

Marypl

‘Mary and her folks/friends’ (elicited example)

Natural gender is usually not marked. Especially in the case of animal names, sex can be specified by preposing hi or shi:

(5)Wen di monki komin bak fram di shap,

whenart.def monkey come-prog back fromart.def shop

ih si wan shii monki an ih get in lov.

3sg.sbj seeart.indf 3sg.f monkey and3sg.sbj get in love

‘When the (male) monkey was coming back from the shop, he saw a female monkey and he fell in love with her.’ (FOREIBCA2005a: 9)

The definite article is preposed di:

(6)di tiicha dem

art.def teacher pl

‘the teachers’

Generic nouns do not take the definite article:

(7)Aligietagou ap tu footiin fiit.

alligator go up to fourteen feet

‘Alligators measure up to fourteen feet.’

In present-day Nicaraguan Creole English the indefinite article tends to be invariable and preposed a, not wan as in San Andres Creole English (see Bartens) and older Nicaraguan Creole English (cf. Holm 1978, Appendix: 51):

(8)Aktuali, Tasba hava kompliit praimari skuul.

actually, Tasbapauni haveart.indf complete primary school

‘At present, there is a complete primary school in Tasbapauni.’

The personal pronouns are listed in Table 3.

We can see that there is a great deal of functional overlap. In the cases where more than one form is listed, the first is the most basilectal, the last the most acrolectal one, e.g. mi – A – Ai for the 1st person singular subject pronoun or shi – (h)ar for the 3rd person singular feminine object pronoun. The formation of the reflexive pronouns is regular in that the suffix -self is added to the most common forms of the object pronoun.

In pronoun conjunction constructions, the probably original construction in (9) predominates over the English-influenced construction in (10):6

As indicated in Table 3, Nicaraguan Creole English distinguishes between adnominal and nominal possessive pronouns essentially through preposed fa in the case of the latter. In the case of the 3rd person singular, the adnominal feminine form is (h)ar whereas the nominal form is fa shi.

Nominal possession is usually expressed by juxtaposing the possessor and the possessum as in the following example:

As a result of influence from English, the English s-genitive also occurs:

Pronominal and adnominal demonstratives are formally identical and form a two-way contrast. According to Holm (1978: 279), the emphatic demonstratives dis-ya and dat-de may be used both prenominally and discontinuously.

(13)dis ring

dem ring

‘this ring’

Indefinite pronouns are based on generic nouns:

Nicaraguan Creole English has ordinal numbers distinct from cardinal numbers up to ‘the fifth’. In addition, neks is frequently used in the meaning ‘the second’ (see example 18):

(17)Diforstiicha iin fourt greid hi woz

art.def first teacher in fourth grade3sg.m.sbj cop.pst

a tiicha we wud taak Inglish an Spanish.

art.indf teacher rel would talk English and Spanish

‘The first teacher in fourth grade was a teacher who talked English and Spanish.’

Albeit increasingly eroded by English constructions, the reduplication of numerals for distributive use still prevails in Nicaraguan Creole English:

Adjectives are used as either attributive adjectives in which case they precede the modified noun or as predicative adjectives in which case they equal stative verbs. In both cases they are invariant, as in examples (20) and (21).

In comparative adjective marking, the adjective is marked:

Comparative standard marking is achieved by means of the particle (d)an:

6. Verb phrase ⇫ ¶

The TAM system of Nicaraguan Creole English is presented in Table 4.

It appears that Nicaraguan Creole English does not permit the co-occurrence of three preverbal TAM-markers.

Holm (1978: 251) cautions that “the corresponding English tense for an unmarked MCC [Misikito Coast Creole, an alternative name for Nicaraguan Creole English] verb can only be determined from the context” although he admits that statistically, unmarked non-stative verbs tend to correspond to the English past, unmarked statives to the English present tense. It seems to me that Nicaraguan Creole English is moving in a direction where (i) “past” and not “anterior”7 is being marked, (ii) “past” is marked much more frequently than “anterior” in San Andres Creole English, and (iii) this marking occurs less and less by means of preverbal markers and more and more by means of English past tense forms.

As far as the preverbal past/anterior markers are concerned, Holm (1978: 251–254) indicates that mi and di(d) are allomorphs, and he does not make any further comments on their distribution. On the basis of recent data, it seems clear that mi is more basilectal than di(d) and hardly any more occurs in naturalistic speech (see examples 24 and 26, respectively).

For marking progressive aspect, the postverbal marker -in (derived from the English present participle ending -ing; the only postverbal marker in the system) is much more frequent than preverbal de (see examples 27 and 28, respectively). In combination with the past/anterior marker mi, the progressive marker may become di, probably as a result of vowel harmony (see example 29).

Among the habitual markers, mesolectal doz/daz is only used in the present (30), yuuztu only in the past (31). The marker stodi which in closely related San Andres-Providence Creole English is only used for present habitual meanings (see survey chapter on San Andres-Providence Creole English, Bartens 2013) can be used for both present and past habituals in Nicaraguan (32).

In Nicaraguan Creole English, it is possible to form an anterior or past form (ex. 34) of the completive aspect (ex. 33):

The use of the completive marker in inchoative constructions is marginal:

Usually, inchoative meanings are expressed by means of get or staat 'to start':

(36)Shi get kreezi.

3sg.f get crazy

‘She got crazy.’

Three different kinds of future tense can be marked: an immediate, a general, and a volitive future (in the respective order of the following examples):

(38)Bot nou evriting wil bi beta wid di nyu govament hier.

but now everythingfut copbettercom demnew governmentdem.loc

‘But now everything will get better with this new government we have here.’

The use of the conditional (also future in the past) marker was illustrated in example (37) above.

The modal auxiliaries of Nicaraguan Creole English are presented in Table 5.

Palatalized kyan ‘can’ is more basilectal than the form kan. As of yet, there is no evidence of a tonal opposition between kyan and kyaan as occurs in San Andres Creole English. Examples (40) to (42) illustrate the use of modal auxiliaries:

(40)Wi di tiicha haftu go bak an laan Mískito.

1pl.sbj art.def teacher have.to go back and learn Miskito

‘We, the teachers, will have to go back [to school] and learn Miskito.’

Modal fo/fa can possibly be considered an extension of the prepositional uses of the item (ex. 43 below; cf. McWhorter 2005: 215–216) but I have not been able to find any evidence of this modal usage in present-day Nicaraguan Creole English which, nevertheless, also features the use as a complementizer (ex. 44):8

Verbal negation does not affect the order of the TAM markers. There are two preverbal negation markers, one for the present (no[u]) and another one for the past (neva)9:

However, the (present) negator no(u) is used at the expense of neva more frequently than in San Andres-Providence Creole English. The English-derived negations don, doun are quite frequent in spoken Nicaraguan Creole English:

Negative concord occurs:

(48)Nobadi neva yuuztu hav tivi.

no.bodyneg.pst hab.psthave TV

‘Nobody would have a TV.’

Predicative noun phrases must occur with a copula:

On the other hand, predicative adjectives may occur with or without a copula:

In predicative locative phrases, constructions with English-derived copulas (54) appear to be ousting both constructions without any copula (52) and with the locative copula de (53):

Predicative possession is expressed by means of two transitive possession constructions. The first is formed with the English-derived verb hav and the second with the verb gat (rather than get as in San Andres Creole English):

The transitive possession and existential verb constructions are both formed with the auxiliaries hav and gat:

There are no serial verb constructions with ‘give’ or ‘take’. As far as directional serial verb constructions are concerned, serial verbs with go/gaan are much more common than with kom. Serial verb constructions with the directional verb following another verb (60) are more common than those with the directional verb preceding another verb (59): Nevertheless, as the constructions with the directional verb following another verb represent structures clearly not part of the grammar of Standard English, they tend to be replaced by structures where the verbs are co-ordinated with and in present-day Nicaraguan Creole English.

(59)Nou Ai go woch dem.

now1sg.sbj go watch3pl.obj

‘Now I will go and watch them.’

There are also serial verb constructions with go […] go, gaan […] gaan, kom […] kom:

(61)Les go go drink di waata an get di gol!

Let's go go drinkart.def water and getart.def gold

‘Let’s drink the water and get the gold!’

The following example is a variant of the original serial verb construction attested by Holm (1978:227) which also occurrs in San Andres-Providence Creole English is sen kaal ‘to summon’.

(62)An shi get wan mesinja sen gaan kaal

and3sg.f.sbj getart.indf messenger send go.pst call

di gyalan tel di gyal […].

art.def girl and tell art.def girl […]

‘So she got a messenger to summon the girl and to tell her: […].’

7. Simple sentences ⇫ ¶

The word order at clause level is always SVO:

(63)An horikien mash dat dong.

and hurricane mashdem down

‘And the hurricane destroyed that.’

In Nicaraguan Creole English, indirect object constructions (64) are possibly even more frequent than the presumably original double-object constructions (65):

(64)Dem giv chyaanztupiipl fram out.

3pl.sbj give chance to people from out

‘They give opportunities to people who are not originally from the community.’

(65)Shi staat afa di oubia wuman moo moni.

3sg.f.sbj start offer art.def obeah woman more money

‘She started to offer the obeah woman more money.’

In experiencer constructions, the experiencer occurs in subject position, e.g.

(66)Wan taim L. neva freed.

one time L.neg.pst afraid

‘Previously, L. wasn’t afraid.’

The following construction is marginal in present-day Nicaraguan Creole English:

(67)Mi hed de hot mi.

1sg.poss headproghurt1sg.obj

‘My head is aching.’

Usually, speakers say:

(68)A gat hediek.

1sg.sbj have headache

‘I have a headache.’

Although expletive subjects are not used in existential constructions in traditional Nicaraguan Creole English (69), it seems that some English-type constructions are entering the language (70).

(69)Ai tink Bluufiilz gat mor piipl spiikin Kriol.

1sg.sbj think Bluefields get more people speak-progCreole.

‘I think there are more people who speak Creole in Bluefields.’

(70)Dierwil aalwiez aalwiez bii dat somting mait hapn tu yu.

there futalways alwayscop.inf demsomething might happencomp 2sg.obj

‘There will always, always be (the possibility) that something might happen to you.’

The non-pro-drop character of Nicaraguan Creole English leads to the maintenance of English constructions with the anticipatory “dummy” subject as in the following example:

(71)Wen ih rein an ih blou iin truu di windou […].

when3sg.n.sbj rain and3sg.n.sbjblow in throughart.defwindow […]

‘When it rains and it blows in through the windows […].’

In Nicaraguan Creole English, passives are formed either by means of the English-derived morphological passive construction or by means of the likewise English-derived get-passive:

(72)If dis ting woz wel regyuleeted […].

ifdem thingcop.pstwell regulate-ptcp […]

‘If this thing was well regulated […].’

(73)Taiga get fraitn.

Tiger get frighten

‘Tiger was frightened.’ (FOREIBCA 2005a: 8)

However, there is also the presumably original construction in which transitive verbs can be used intransitively with the patient as subject and no agent expressed.

(74)Di papaya trii troo iin di basura.

art.def papaya tree throw inart.defgarbage

‘The papaya tree was thrown into the garbage.’

Finally, passive contents can be expressed by means of active constructions the subject of which is the 3rd person plural:

(75)Dem kil im.

3pl.sbj kill3sg.m.obj

‘They killed him.’

The reflexive voice is generally formed by means of suffixing -self to the personal object pronouns (see Table 3):

(76)Di big piipl dem disgaisdemself.

art.def big people PL disguise 3pl-refl

‘[Even] the adults disguise themselves.’

Body part reflexives were documented by Holm (1978: 230), but their use in present-day Nicaraguan Creole English must be marginal at best:

(77)wash yu skin

wash2sg.poss skin

‘to wash oneself’ (Holm 1978: 230)

Whereas it might seem that the English pattern (intensifiers and reflexives are identical; ex. 78) is ousting the Nicaraguan Creole English intensifying structures formed with bare self and wan postposed to an object pronoun (79 and 80, respectively), at least the latter structure persists in present-day Nicaraguan Creole English. However, this combination tends to have the meaning ‘all by X-self’.

(78)Di dairektorihnselfuopn di doa.

art.def director3sg.intensopenart.defdoor

‘The director himself opened the door.’

(79)nat di riil biébiself

negart.def real babyintens

‘not the little baby (but rather the little boy)’ (Holm 1978: 78)

(80)i liiv i braadahim wan

3sg.sbj leave3sg.poss brother3sg.obj intens

‘She left her brother by himself.’ (Holm 1978: 288)

Reciprocal constructions are formed by means of English-derived wananada and are therefore distinct from reflexive constructions:

(81)Nobadi respekwananada.

no.body respectrecp

‘Nobody respects one another.’

The imperative is formed by means of using the bare verb, the prohibitive by pre-posing the negator to it:

(82)Jak, stie bilou!

Jack stay below

‘Jack, stay down there!’

(83)No kom hiar!

neg comedem.loc

‘Don’t come here!’

When addressed to the second person plural, both the imperative and the prohibitive take the subject pronoun unu:

(84)Unu ketchar!10

2pl.sbj catch-3sg.f.obj

‘(You) catch her!’ (FOREIBCA 2005a: 10)

Hortatives are formed with the verbs le(s) < English let’s, mek < English make, and main < English mind:

(85)Lego huom!

let.go home

‘Let’s go home!’

(86)Mek di piknini dem taak.

makeart.def childpltalk

‘Let the children talk.’

(87)Main yu kot yu finga!

mind2sg.sbjcut2sg.poss finger

‘Be careful lest you cut your finger!’

Polar questions can be distinguished from affirmative sentences only as a result of their rising intonation:

(88)So di wat wi taak iz Kriol?

sodem rel 1pl.sbjtalkcop.prs Creole

‘So is this (language) which we talk Creole?’

Content questions are formed with interrogative pronouns and adverbs which are sentence-initial. Single-word interrogatives derived from their English counterparts appear to have virtually ousted compound expressions: Holm (1978) lists húuda(t) ‘who’, wich paat, wich/wat said ‘where’, wen taim ‘when’ whereas present-day Nicaraguan Creole English only has huu ‘who’, we/wier ‘where’, and wen ‘when’. Hou ‘how’ has been documented only in monomorphematic form.

(89)Weh yu hie di neks kriol?

where2sg.sbjhearart.defnext creole

‘Where have you heard the other/another creole spoken?’

Nominal cleft constructions consist of the focused constituent highlighted by a copula and a relative clause as the background clause:

(90)Dem iz huu woz marginated.

3pl.sbjcop.prsrelcop.pst marginate-ptcp

‘It is/was them who were marginalized.’

There is no verb doubling for focus:

(91)Shijosmi de faam.

3sg.f.sbj justpst prog pretend

‘She was just pretending.’

8. Complex sentences ⇫ ¶

The coordinating conjunctions are an ‘and’, or ‘or’, and bot ‘but’. Note that an is used both as a nominal and as a verbal conjunction:

(92)flauwa an saalt

flour and salt

‘flour and salt’

(93)Yu gwan on di biichanyu kech fish.

2sg.sbj go.on onart.defbeach and2sg.sbjcatch fish

‘You go onto the beach and you catch some fish.’

Comitatives and instrumentals are both marked with wid:

(94)Yu go an yu stee widdeman yu plei kaad.

2sg.sbj go and2sg.sbj staycom 3pl.obj and2sg.sbj play card

‘You go and you stay with them and you play cards.’

(95)Yu kan aalso mek yor rondon wid miit.

2sg.sbj can also make2sg.possrundowninsmeat

‘You can also make your rundown with meat.’

Older generation speakers appear to use wid as a conjunction coordinating NPs as well:

(96)Di kaptinwievibadi waz der.

art.def captain with every.bodycop.pst dem.loc

‘The captain and everybody was there.’ (Holm 1978: 291)

According to Holm (1978: 247), the Nicaraguan Creole English subordinating complementizer with verbs of speaking, perception and judgement se can (i) follow the verb se ‘to say’ and (ii) co-occur with dat as a sequence: se dat (e.g. after the verb tel ‘to tell’). It appears that dat (< English that) or zero are increasingly replacing se, here nevertheless exemplified in (97). As far as verbs of knowing are concerned, se appears to be the original complementizer (98) which is likewise being ousted by dat (99) or zero:

(97)Ai haftu taak se Ai stiil dis ring.

1sg.sbj have.to talkcomp 1sg.sbjstealdemring

‘I have to tell [you] that I stole this ring.’

(98)Ai doun waa dem nou se Ai tiif di ring.

1sg.sbjneg want3pl.obj knowcomp1sg.sbj stealart.def ring

‘I don’t want them to know I stole the ring.’

(99)Yu wud nuo dat Kriol iz laik dis.

2sg.sbj would know comp Creolecop.prslike dem

‘You would know that Creole is like this.’

Object complement clauses of waa(hn) ‘to want’ generally do not require an overt complementizer but may occasionally take the complementizer fa/fu:

(100)Ai waa help mai famali.

1sg.sbj want help 1sg.poss family

‘I want to help my family.’

Frequent subordinators introducing adverbial clauses are for instance aafta ‘after’, bikaaz ‘because’, fram ‘since’, if ‘if’, etc.

(101)So if wi get Monday, wi no get Tuesday.

so if1pl.sbj get Monday,1pl.sbjnegget Tuesday

‘So if we get [the newspapers] on Monday, we won’t get [them] on Tuesday.’

Relative clauses are always postposed to the head noun. The relativized element can be a subject, object or an obligatory adverbial. The basilect features the relative particle we(h) (102), meso- and acrolectal registers English-derived pronouns such as wat (88) and huu (90).

(102)iin di praimari skuul we Ai wook

inart.def primary schoolrel 1sg.sbjwork

‘in the primary school where I work’

9. Lexicon ⇫ ¶