Update 1

May 5, 2005, 1615, 33.33 S, 175.15 E, Log: 85,487 miles

Winds: 30kts ESE, down from 45 gusts 50 early this morning. Seas: 12-15′, down from 22′ earlier, Baro: 1023, Cabin Temp: 75F, Cockpit Temp: 67F

Start of a new season, second day at sea on passage to Rurutu, Iles Australs, south of Tahiti

We’re out here on edge of the Roaring Forties again, but instead of heading east along 40 degrees south latitude, unusual weather patterns dictated sailing north. We are now 50 miles N of the North Cape, the northern tip of New Zealand, pointing toward Fiji, instead of Tahiti. Our plan is to sail around the northern edge of a low that just dropped down, to find S, SW, then NW winds to scoot us on our way toward Rurutu and later Tahiti.

Amanda and I arrived in Auckland April 18 to a gorgeous Indian summer without the ubiquitous winds and squalls that made any work on deck such a challenge a year ago and again in December when we were packing up to leave MT for the summer. The sunny weather meant Amanda could work on varnish prep and I was able to hire a guy from the local boatbuilder with a very powerful sander/vacuum machine to help lightly sand the decks after I trimmed the deck seams with a sharp chisel. As the bottom had already been painted and topsides cut and polished before our arrival, I concentrated on recommissioning the engine and Max prop. We launched a day early and motored to our favorite anchorage on Rangitoto Island, at the entrance to Auckland harbour to varnish and continue re-installing gear.

M.T on our arrival back in N.Z

M.T ready to launch

John installing the refitted watermaker

I had carried our PUR/Katadyn 160 watermaker membrane and motor back to the States for servicing, so I reinstalled the watermaker and tested it before we motored for Auckland. Strong, cold southerly winds with rain meant we weren’t able to bend the mainsail on until several days later in Westhaven Marina.

On Tuesday, April 26, Gordy, my all-time favorite diesel mechanic from Ovlov Marine came to help with our annual engine service. Together we adjusted the valves, he checked the alignment, swapped out the 12 volt alternator that had just stopped working, for our spare, then rebuilt the old one. After 4000 hours since we last had the fuel injectors serviced in Norway, Gordy pulled them and sent them off to be rebuilt.

Gordy our trusty mechanic gives the engine a thumbs up

Amanda and Grant assembling the new Furlex furler

Base of the forestay wire assembly

Friday was a busy day. About the time Gordy showed up with the injectors to reinstall, Grant, a local rigger showed up with a new forestay and headfoil for our furler that had come from Selden in Sweden. Amanda and Grant assembled the Furlex furler with some great advice from Eddie, the local Selden rep, while I helped Gordy. Friday night was dry good provisioning, Saturday was frozen foods and Sunday was fresh fruit and veg provisioning. Monday we ran errands and Tuesday crew arrived. What a blur!

Leg 1 Crew – Paul, Shawn, Merle, Carolyn, Amanda, Karen and Jim

Bob Mc Davit showing crew our departure possibility

As always with expeditions starting or ending in Auckland, I scheduled a weather briefing at MetService New Zealand’s Bob McDavitt. On Monday Bob (and Commanders Weather) had said that it looked like we might need to wait as long as six or seven days for a good departure window. Our crew put on a brave face as we outlined coastal hopping up the coast with a planned outbound customs clearance from either Whangarei or Opua. But when Bob in his Tuesday afternoon briefing showed us an alternative of sailing north from Auckland, around the newly established low, everyone (including us) was delighted.

After an excellent dinner ashore together Tuesday night, we topped up fuel and water and cleared outbound customs Wednesday morning, to set sail before noon. Our beam-to-broad reach winds filled in just north of Rangitoto Island and before long were in the 25-30 knot range scurrying through the Hauraki Gulf and past the northern tip of Great Barrier Island. The forecast called for gale force SE winds over the entire east coast, with very rough sea conditions, but as these were following seas, we charged on our way north. Surprisingly we didn’t see any shipping or fishing boats, and by midnight we really had our hands full with the very rough sea conditions forecasted.

In our orientation we always record the reasons crew have chosen the leg they are on, and what their top learning goals are. With our Leg 1 crew, five out of six mentioned heavy weather experience, and we knew they wouldn’t be disappointed! Only three succumbed breif seasickness, but even with very challenging conditions, everyone stood their watches without complaint. I tried an experiment for seasickness treatment, and as soon as anyone vomited, I asked them to take two Stugeron, even though each had either used Scopalamine transderm patches of Compazine suppositories. The results were stunning, and the seasickness (mine included) vanished, even though we were in appalling conditions. I said a quiet thank you to Vicky White from our Leg 8-04 crew who has kindly sent a ton of Stugeron purchased in London a few months ago.

May 6, 2005, 1600, 31.34 S, 176.05 E, Log: 85,626 miles

Winds: 6 kts NE,. Seas: 8′ – 10′, Baro: 1014, Cabin Temp: 76F, Cockpit Temp: 71F

From very rough conditions, winds started moderating, as forecasted in the early hours of Friday, and by noon, we had reached the center of the moderate (1014 mb) low where winds were less than five knots, so we started motorsailing. All our forecasts (GRIB files, Commanders and McDavitt) call for several days of light air as we move along the top of the low pressure in an area devoid of isobars on the charts. With calmer conditions we’ll try our luck at fishing.

We had a great first swim stop today with everyone diving in to the surprising warm water, soaping up, and diving in again to rinse off before enjoying a warm fresh water rinse on the swim step. Not long after our swim when we were back underway, Jim spotted a MetService NZ yellow weather buoy, and when he slowed so that we could read the writing on it as we passed, we got a hit on one of our fishing lines. As Amanda pulled in a 20lb mahi mahi, it did some real fighting including a tail walking display, a dozen or more of its cohorts came right up to the boat, their bright colors flashing in the crystal clear water. It was a battle landing the mahi, with Amanda on the hand reel, Merle with a sail tie lassoing the tail, and me on the gaff. After several minutes struggle with blood splattered everywhere, we finally had the mahi on the deck, her tail secured with a sail tie to a cleat. But somehow she managed to slip out, beating a tattoo across the deck, she would have been back in the water if Merle, a very keen fisherman, hadn’t tackled her! Merle happily filleted one side after Amanda showed him on the first side, and within minutes crew were tucking into sashimi. Merle had brought some special spices with him, so for dinner Amanda dipped each fillet lightly in olive oil, then in the seasoning before quickly searing it. What a dinner we had, complete with spuds and veggies! To top it off the night sky was ablaze with stars and the Southern Cross shown brightly overhead.

May 7, 2005, 115, 30.59 S, 178.41 E, Log: 85,780 miles

Winds: 20 kts NE,. Seas: 8′ – 10′, Baro: 1009, Cabin Temp: 79F, Cockpit Temp: 76F

After a night of quietly motorsailing along in winds averaging under 5 kts, we pulled out our cruising spinnaker after breakfast this morning when the following winds reached 10 kts. By the time we had the sock (with sail inside) laid out and ready to hoist the winds had increased to 18 knots, and we were sailing along at 5.5 kts with just the main held all the way with a preventer. So, we packed up the chute and unrolled our 130% genoa and rigged the downwind pole to hold it steady. Presto! Our speed jumped to 6.5 kts, and since then we have been sailing along on a broad reach at up to 8.5 kts. We can’t figure where the wind is coming from as the NZ weatherfax shows three low pressure centers surrounding us, each with 1014, and no surrounding isobars. It should be really calm, according to the forecasts, but we are delighted to be scooting along, nearly exactly on course for Rurutu, now just 1660 miles away.

Leg 1-05, Update 2

May 16, 2005, 0640, 24.35 S, 156.47 W, Log: 87,269 miles

Broad reaching under full main and 130% genoa at 7.5 – 8.5 kts, Winds: 23kts SSW, seas: 8′ Baro: 1008, Cabin Temp: 77F, Cockpit Temp: 71F

Mahina Tiare ready to set sail from Westhaven Marina

Surfing Toward Rurutu, 320 miles away!

No one familiar with this route would ever believe that for the past nine days we have had nothing but following SSW winds, consistently covering 140-174miles per day, but it’s true! Normally we are battling easterly quadrant winds, trying to stay south as long as possible. This year is the exception, and our eager crew loves every minute.

To bring you up to date, after the last update we sailed past then circumnavigated Curtis Island, an uninhabited smoking volcanic island belonging to the Kermadec group. At first we were just going to sail by, but fascinated by the rugged, barren prehistoric-looking island, we rolled in the genoa and slowly motorsailed around the island. Part of a NZ nature reserve, no fishing or landing ashore is allowed and by the looks of the sheer cliffs and huge breakers, landing would be impossible in anything but settled weather.

​​​

Curtis Island

The following day Merle and Amanda caught both a yellow fin tuna AND a mahi mahi, but those were the last fish we’ve landed.

Merle and Amanda tackle a slippery yellowfin tuna

We also received a visitor! A little bird that looked like a finch landed on the lifeline in the afternoon, obviously exhausted, and struggling to balance. Amanda gently lifted her off the lifeline and set her under the dodger where she would periodically fly around the cockpit, alighting for a few minutes on Shawn’s finger, before settling back down. It flew away but returned later, Karen commented that it looked skinnier and was not the same bird. Sure enough by sunset we had three little birds, one was quite tame, the other two more weary started the night out sleeping on the lifeline. When it started to rain Amanda checked on them only to find them snuggled together, one little feathery ball. She plucked them off the line and placed them in a plastic container lined with a cloth so they would have something to hang on to. The following morning they happily flew on their way!

Mid ocean visitor alights on the high lifeline…

and Shawn’s finger

On Tuesday, April 10th we had our halfway party while closely monitoring a meteorological bomb (a surface depression that drops 14 milibars or more at 30 degrees latitude). The NZ MetService weather faxes showed a rapidly deepening low dropping in on top of us. As we were in the center of the depression, we had mild conditions as the barometer plunged to 999. With winds of only 5 knots, we shook out all the reefs, took bucket baths and were motorsailing slowly under full sail when the leading edge of a vicious cold front overtook us with solid 35kt winds and gusts to 50.

The on watch crew felt the cold, damp winds but failed to see the squall line approaching, so in seconds we were hove-to, VERY overpowered, and being pushed sideways, with the leeward deck awash. That was the first time this has happened! In minutes we carefully started easing the backwinded jib, furling it down to 10%, then gybed around and Amanda organized dropping the main into lazy jacks. We then surfed off downwind, under just the scrap of headsail. That evening the winds stabilized in the 25, gusting 38 knot range, and both Commanders Weather and Bob McDavitt at MetService NZ said, “GO NORTH, QUICKLY!”, and that is what we did to avoid the still deepening serious depression. The confused seas fueled by the depression continued to build until they were in the 18′-22′ range, giving our crew some more valuable storm sailing experience. For what seemed days we had the main triple reefed and hardly any headsail out.

Slowly the conditions moderated, but we have kept zooming along, only occasionally needing to motor for an hour or two when the wind is sucked away by a passing squall. We’ve had virtually no rain. Our rebuilt watermaker is really cranking and our water tanks (and fuel tanks) are still ¾ full. We’re nearly on track with our teaching, the only thing we are waiting for is a little calmer sea condition so crew can take sextant sights.

Amanda’s rig check class took a very realistic turn when she had to go to the first spreaders to replace the deck light bulb that was not only burned out, but had somehow managed to slip out of it’s holder and was swaying back and forth, miraculously, never shattering against the mast! Amanda has a new sail handling practice program where each day she gets the daily rig check duty person to tuck in and shake out a reef, as she accompanies them on their round-the-deck rig check.

Amanda aloft to replace the deck light

Rig check class with Amanda

Hey, we’ve got an excellent crew, and we haven’t even told you about them!

Shawn Waldowski, 32, moved to San Francisco after finishing Michigan State University nine years ago. He lives in the Marina district and enjoys sailing, snowboarding and playing his guitar. Soon after moving to the Bay area he joined OCSC sailing club which he loves. He says they do an excellent job with lots of different classes and boats available. His sailing goal is to buy a boat, maybe a Pacific Seacraft 34 in a couple years and sail it to Hawaii with his Dad, maybe with the Pacific Cup. His dad sailed around the world on an aircraft carrier some years ago, and Shawn thinks sharing the passage to Hawaii would be cool.

John and Shawn top up the main tank from jerry jugs

When not sailing, Shawn works as a global account exec for GE Capital, where he originates and structures large international corporate transactions.

Paul Christehsen, 59, is a semi-retired electrical engineer and laser jock who enjoys both mountains and sea. Although business has kept him in the Washington, DC area for quite a few years, he is originally from Colorado, he seeks lone wilderness trails and has back country hiked extensively in Montana, Wyoming, Colorado and Canada plus skied throughout the Rockies. Lately Paul has been spending most of his free time on sailboats on the US Eastern seaboard, Bahamas, Turks and Caicos, and Panama. He joined this leg to get his first experience in the wild and beautiful seas of the Southern Ocean. Paul’s wife Ruth accompanied him to New Zealand and they enjoyed a week of touring and hiking before meeting us in Auckland.

Karen Foster, 49, lives in Anchorage, Alaska and has a passion for travel and adventure. It’s hard to believe that she is a mother of four, step mom to three and grandmother of five! She came on board with incredible anxiety thinking she could never live without her six shots of espresso a day, but says it has been a piece of cake! She is a very successful realtor having previously been an ABC television news reporter. She enjoys sailing their Pacific Seacraft 37 out of Seward, Alaska with her husband Jim.

Jim Foster, 48, first visited Alaska with some buddies right out of high school. After moving back to Florida and being trained as a paramedic, he returned to Alaska and has since worked for the Anchorage Fire Department. Jim and Karen are keen divers, having recently returned from a diving expedition to the Galapagos Islands they are looking forward to diving in Bora Bora after the expedition. Jim, a history buff, has a plan to retrace Magellan’s circumnavigation of the world which is approaching its 500 year anniversary. Jim and Karen are hoping to upgrade to a Pacific Seacraft 44 for their planned circumnavigation.

Merle Jadhe, 57 is a true renaissance man and is our first expedition member who owns horses, four tractors, hunts, processes his own deer and smokes his own fish. This guy is a true rugged sportsman and outdoorsman! Merle grew up on a family farm leased from a Native American community in Nebraska, attended a one-room school house, and has dreamed of sailing to Tahiti since he was nine years old. What a joy to be help him achieve this dream! Merle still does some farming, but his main focus is in doing award-winning environmentally-sound housing developments near Lincoln, Nebraska.

Carolyn Jadhe, 62 was a successful realtor in Florida when she met Merle, who persuaded her to move to Nebraska. She is a full-speed-ahead person, enjoying family, horseback riding,

Amanda testing Carolyn on reffing procedures

photography, golf and interior decorating when not working like crazy selling real estate. She and Merle have really been bitten by the sailing bug and plan on extensive cruising somewhere in the

An attempt by Shawn to capture a green flash

next 2-3 years.

There you have it! A crew bonded by the common thread of the desire to broaden their sailing and seamanship skills, plus a love of adventure. What more could we ask for?

Leg 1-05, Update 3

May 23, 2005, 0140, 18.15 S, 151.00 W, Log: 87,865 miles

Broad reaching under full main and 130% genoa at 7.5 kts, Winds: 17kts SSE, seas: 5′

Baro: 1011, Cabin Temp: 79F, Cockpit Temp: 77F

Rurutu, What an Island!

Our incredible winds held until Rurutu, and sunrise on Wednesday revealed a verdant up thrust coral island. Unusually calm conditions along the windward (eastern) side of the island meant that we could sail along close to the shore, checking out the numerous limestone caves along the shoreline.

Dawn landfall at Rurutu

We drifted past the exposed and deep anchorage where nearly 30 years ago I had anchored briefly with Mahina Tiare I, my 31′ Hallberg-Rassy Monsun. No sooner had I gone ashore to clear in with the Gendarme than an easterly swell came up. I hurried back to MT, but just after I got aboard, there was a loud BANG as my anchor roller assembly snapped. The anchor chain had become wrapped around one of the numerous coral heads (there were no sandy patches to be found) and the swell had caused tremendous loading on the chain and roller assembly. I slowly retrieved the anchor, hand over hand, then set sail for Rimatara, the smallest and westernmost of the Austral Islands.

Over the past 30 years I made several visits all the other Austral Islands, except isolated Rapa. Occasionally I would hear some news of Rurutu. One year I met a school teacher in Papeete who said he spent a year living aboard his sailboat in the newly-built harbor, but last year was the clincher! On Moorea, Amanda met the crew of a kiwi yacht that had just stopped at Rurutu on their way up from NZ. Tales of being overwhelmed with kindness, offered tours of the island by a local teacher and receiving gifts of more fruit and vegies than they could use was the clincher for Amanda, so one year ago we decided to change our itinerary for Leg 1-05, skip Raivavae and Tubuai, and try for Rurutu then sail north to Huahine before heading for Moorea and Tahiti.

By 1130 we had arrived at the new harbor, complete with range lights and substantial breakwaters protecting either side of the entrance. Not knowing what we would find inside, we launched the RIB, and

Approaching Moerai harbor

Paul and I zipped inside to find the attractive little basin totally empty – not even one canoe or speedboat visible.

With crew we discussed mooring options; we could drop a bow anchor and med-moor stern-to along the inner bulkhead, or for easier access, we could try and tie alongside the wharf, designed and fendered for the 150′ inter-island freighter, Tuhaa Pae II, that we seem to meet every year we visit the Australs. We chose the later, and because we had been warned the kiwi boat and Charlie’s Charts of Polynesia of considerable surge in the harbor, we borrowed a trick we have frequently seen freighters use in small harbors. We came into the harbor, made a 180 degree turn, and slowly passed the wharf by two boat lengths, dropped the main anchor, then backed to tie beam-to along the wharf. Amanda was in the RIB, acting as our tugboat, and Shawn was on the dock catching and securing lines. The plan worked like a dream! Our spring lines in moderate tension against the bow anchor kept us close to, but not touching the rough concrete and large black ship’s fenders.

Almost immediately a dozen kids were on the dock, chatting away in Tahitian. Before long one of them returned with a huge stalk of bananas and a couple more returned loaded with gifts of pamplemouse, the delicious sweet grapefruit that are irresistible. We asked if they would like to see the boat, but they shyly said no. The Gendarme had told Amanda I should come by with papers and passports at 1400, so we tidied up the boat and chatted with the kids on the dock until Jackie and Valentine came roaring up in a shiny new 4 x 4 pickup. Jackie told us he was an Airbus 340 pilot for Air Tahiti Nui, and Valentine, his attractive and vivacious wife told us she was originally from Rurutu, but they had been living in Bordeaux and Papeete, only recently starting to visit Rurutu where they were having a house built. Jackie dreams of cruising on his own boat one day, and they both eagerly jumped at the offer of a tour of MT.

Before long they had to catch a flight back to Papeete, and Amanda and I headed to the Gendarmerie to check in. The Gendarme said we were only the second boat to check in while he had been stationed there, and he used the papers from the kiwi boat a year ago as a guideline for what to ask us

When I asked about a place to rent bicycles, he said in French, “It’s too far to walk, so I’ll have my assistant drive you there!” So, we got the tour of town (didn’t take long!) and were introduced to Laudry Chong, a Chinese-Tahitian mechanic who had recently opened an attractive eight-roomed pension and restaurant, complete with a gorgeous swimming pool a little ways out of town. Amanda and I rented the only two bikes he had, and headed back to the boat so our crew could go exploring. Karen and Jim had dinner at Laudry’s and after their hearty recommendation; we all booked for dinner there the following night. What a great time we had! Terry, the Hinano beer rep from Tahiti was a pension guest and kept us entertained with jokes and introduced us to each of the pension guests while Laudry would come by and explain what each of the courses were. In the end, we all piled into Laudry’s truck and he drove us back to the harbor. Drinks, the delicious dinner with wine and desert and transportation was $32 US per person.

Tourist map of Rurutu

Moerai Bay, east coast

Terry serenades us with Tahitian songs at dinner

Carolyn and Merle took off cycling, Paul and Shawn went hiking, and Karen and Jim checked out beaches the following day. While Amanda and I were doing boat chores, a woman came by and told us it was nice to have a yacht in the harbor, and that she hoped we enjoyed the island. We later learned that we were only the second yacht in 12 years to visit Rurutu!

Friday morning Tuhaa Pae was due, and at 0530, before first light, our crew spotted her, hove-to two miles off the island. We quickly got underway, and she ghosted past us just at dawn. We anchored offshore, and after breakfast and class, went on a snorkeling safari along the coast. Before noon we raised anchor and had an excellent opportunity to practice stern-to Med-mooring inside the harbor, but out of the way of the freighter.

Waiting for the supply ship

Tuhaa Pae offloading supplies

M.T med morred in the Harbor

That afternoon Merle and Carolyn, Karen and Jim had booked a tour and enjoyed circumnavigating the island with Laudry in his truck. Paul and Shawn set off to cycle the northern half of the island, and as Amanda and I cycled the entire island yesterday we were now eager to take a hike around the attractive village and enjoy visiting with the local children plus catching a few images of what seemed old style Polynesia.

Amanda pointing out our moring bike route

Main Street Moerai

28 Picturesque houses and gardens

28 Picturesque houses and gardens

In front of the mayor’s office we found the huge stones, a 130 kg one for men, and a 90 kg stone for women, that are part of Rurutu history. The islanders have long held contests as to who can lift the heaviest stone, greased with coconut oil. We couldn’t budge either stone.

Gate post displaying the traditional sporting event of rock carrying

Amanda attempts to pick up the “carrying rock”

When Laudry returned with our crew, his truck was piled high with gifts of fruit: bananas, soursops, papayas, limes, and MORE pamplemouse! Then a woman showed up on the harbor wall astern of us with yet more pamplemouse, and Saturday morning when we were hoisting the dinghy out, getting ready to set sail, a shy older couple hailed us from shore. They had brought a wheelbarrow overloaded with bananas and pamplemouse. None of these people wanted anything in return, they were just overflowing with kindness and generosity. We will never forget this island, the generous and friendly people and the attractive houses and gardens.

Leg 1-05, Update 4

June 4, 2005, 1340, 17.29 S, 149.52 W, Log: 88,137 miles

Broad reaching under full main and 130% genoa at 7.5 kts,

Winds: 17kts SSE, seas: 5′ Baro: 1011, Cabin Temp: 86F, Cockpit Temp: 97F

Setting sail from Rurutu the winds were light, in the 10-12 knot range, but as we murmured about

Rarewell to an enchanting island

setting the cruising spinnaker they jumped to 15-22 knots, and stayed there with occasional gusts into the mid-30’s, until we sailed in the pass at Fare, Huahine.

The several stalks of bananas we had generously been given on Rurutu decided to ripen spontaneously and Shawn and Merle dreamt up all different ways to fix them. Their favorite was to slice them down the middle, filling them with Nutella (chocolate-hazelnut spread) and shredded coconut. What a treat!

Merle and Shawn discover that banana’s taste great with Nutella, coconut and peanuts

As we hadn’t caught a fish in well over a week, and this crew loves fresh fish especially raw, Amanda held a lure design and construction class on Sunday. It worked! Karen had combined a wild assortment of octopus skirts on a resin head and within hours we were struggling mightily to land a large mahimahi. After we had landed the giant and had it secured with a sail tie slip-knotted over its tail and cleated

Everyone takes a trick at rigging a lure…today we’ll catch fish

off, somehow it managed to slip loose. The mahi was headed toward the scuppers and freedom before Merle, ever the keen fisherman, tackled it!

As the wind was uncharacteristically out of the S and then SSE, we got practice steering downwind and gybing the pole as we rocketed along under a bright full moon. At sunrise on Monday we caught a glimpse of Maio, a sparsely inhabited island 100 or so miles south of Moorea as the wind freshened to 25, gusting 28. Our doubts of making Huahine’s pass before dark vanished as our speed increased above 8 knots. By 1400 we had the breakers on the southern reef in sight and by 1530 we had sailed into the precarious anchorage that we favor, 1/2 mile off Fare town wharf.

Jim keeps watch as we approach Huahine

Entering the main bay at Huahine

Lining up the range markers as we enter through the reef

This anchorage is handy to town, yet out of the way of the inter-island freighters that arrive and depart at all hours. It took several attempts by Merle and I underwater before we got the main anchor hooked into a little crevice in a bottom which is as hard and flat as cement. The more convenient anchorage off the beach and snack bar just west of the wharf is often subject to violent gusts coming down the valley.

Tuesday Amanda and I stood anchor watch as one after another squall came roaring through the anchorage, while four out of our six crew bicycled the entire way around Huahine Nui, the larger northern half of the island. Late that afternoon I found an old abandoned mooring that I had seen over a period of several years, and with the help of Shawn and Merle we shackled our second anchor line to the huge rusty links of chain that were wrapped around a giant coral head many years earlier. We slept better because of that!

We enjoyed meeting two couples who had buddy-cruised all the way from Europe. The American couple were sailing a handsome Najad 49 on which they proudly pointed out many custom features included hydraulically retractable dinghy davits, and their Welsh friends, aboard Seren Wen were sailing a two-year old Hallberg-Rassy 43. As the 43 is on Merle and Carolyn’s short list of cruising boats, they were delighted when we were all invited aboard for a tour. What an attractive and fast boat she was! With the same size rig as Mahina Tiare, nearly as long of a waterline, and a larger aft cabin, German Frers really came up with a winner with this design. Of extra interest were the mainsail handling systems. The Najad owners had chosen Leisurefurl, the NZ made in-the-boom furling system, and the HR owners had Selden’s in-the-mast furling. We gathered that the Selden system was better as the Najad owner’s said it took both of them to raise the main, and that the boat had to be pointed directly into the wind to raise, reef or strike the main. The HR owners said that with their hydraulic furling system either of them could raise, reef or strike the main on any point of sail. They said they hadn’t had any problems with the hydraulic systems on the main, jib or staysail, other than the cap coming off the reservoir because someone forgot to properly tighten it when the boat was new.

Niad 49, La Contenta

HR 43, Seren Wen

Ed and Ray welcome us aboard for a quick tour

Wednesday we sailed south to the more sheltered and secure Port Bourayne. With depths of 60-90′ and thick, luscious vegetation ashore, this is not a usual yachtie hang-out, but we had a delightful sunset beach walk and enjoyed a very quiet night. It provided the perfect venue for Amanda to teach winch rebuilding Thursday morning.

A lush tropical view of Huahine

Before long it was time to set sail for a last quick fresh bread stop at Fare, and then on to Moorea, 85 miles to windward. With reinforced tradewinds of 26, gusting 32, we tucked two reefs in the main, rolled the jib down and hung on! It was a rough night with several of us (including me for the first time this year) succumbing to mal de mer. Right in the middle of it (I have no idea what time it was-probably around eight) the forward head just decided to stop working. As it is an important stop for seasick crew below decks, I felt it was imperative to get it working as quickly as possible. When I pulled the pump off there was no signs of blockages, but plenty of scale build-up, so I just installed an entire new pump assembly. Boy, did I heave a sigh of relief when I got all the hoses hooked back up and it worked perfectly! Moorea’s jagged, unmistakable outline was visible at dawn and by 1135 we dropped the anchor in front of the Club Bali Hai, a funky beachfront hotel-bar started in 1960 by three crazy guys from Newport Beach, the Bali Hai boys. To keep up with our teaching schedule, Amanda had crew learning how to safely hoist each other to the masthead to check the rigging (and to snap great pictures of this dramatic bay) soon after we had anchored. While Amanda taught, I found that pineapples ashore were still six for $5, so we had a tasty treat after class.

Carolyn checks se ond spreaders

Nebraska farm boy Merle in Paradise, Cooks Bay Moorea

After lunch crew went exploring ashore and the next morning it was sail repair class, followed by a competition between two teams to see who could hoist the storm staysail or storm trysail faster, without any instruction.

Crew team up to compete in rigging storm sails

A tast of the past as the square rigger La Boudeuse glides by

Jim and Karen take the watch as we wait for wind

Lifesling overboard practice followed, then we sailed out of Cook’s Bay and into the tiny pass by the Pearl Resort, as we heard they would be having Tahitian dancing that evening. What a show! Tahitian tamure dancers on the beach, under the stars, with pulsating slit drum music.

Tahitian Tamure dance

Tahitian Fire dance

Merle, Carolyn and dancers

The following morning we set sail early for Tahiti, stopping to top up fuel at the only fuel dock in Tahiti located at Marina Taina. Normally we anchor out, but as there was space following a recent expansion, we decided to take a slip for the night. The cost was the equivalent to $1 US per foot per night, the same as we have paid at Roche Harbor, Puerto Vallarta and at Cowes, England.

Paul keeps a look out as we approach Tahiti

Fueling at Marina Taina

We caught the bus to town and were surprised to see Shepherd Moon, Joe Wilcox’ Island Packet 350 tied up to the Papeete quay, Joe had sailed on a Samoa-Fiji leg several years ago. Joe is on his way around the world, interspersed with returning to teach astronomy at Highline College near Seattle. We had a great evening at “le roulettes”, the open-sided restaurant-trucks that park at the Papeete quay each night. All kinds of home made pizza, cooked in a wood-fired oven plastered on the back of an old Renault van, tasty salads and wicked ice cream treats were our fare that evening.

Shepherd Moon, Island Packet 350

Joe and Robin Wilcox share desert

Crew graduation dinner at Le Trucks…Great Pizza!

Monday morning it was time for crew to pack their bags and clean their cabins before heading off on more adventures. How can four weeks pass so quickly? Before leaving we all took a moment to say what we were thankful for. Karen was thankful for the new head pump that was easier to pump, Merle was thankful for all the fish we caught, Carolyn was thankful for all the things she had learned, Paul was thankful for the new friends and places he had seen, and I was thankful for the most amazing weather we have had on the ninth time making the passage north from NZ.

Update 1

September 11, 2004 0000

Moored Stern-To in Avatiu Harbour, Rarotonga, Cook Islands

HANGING ON FOR DEAR LIFE IN RARO!

In our weather classes we state that although high pressure generally means clear weather, with central pressure over 1030 millibars, one should expect gale force winds somewhere on the perimeter. Right now we have a 1040 mb high south of us and a 999 mb low that should soon pass over Rarotonga. The combination has generated gale force northerly winds and seas to 6.8 meters (20′), a direction that tiny Avatiu Harbour offers no protection from.

As the weather (and forecasts) worsened over the past days, every longline fishing boat and rust bucket freighter headed for this tiny harbour. Yesterday afternoon we had tense moments as Mana Nui, a 150′ wrecker’s yard freighter came into port just as a powerful squall struck the island. She managed to get a bowline ashore, but repeated tries at sending a monkey’s fist ashore, with stern line attached, failed, and she started to blow down on us. Finally her skipper powered the bow into the wharf with a screeching of steel on concrete and her crew managed to get the stern line run ashore.

Last night the harbour was a continual surging beast exhibiting loud grinding noises as fenderless steel ships gnawed on each other and the concrete wharf. I had been occasionally catnapping between checking anchor, mooring and stern lines when at 0300 I heard the harbourmaster urgently and repeatedly calling four fishing boats (80′ – 60′ in length) that were rafted to one of the freighters. I looked out and saw every sailor’s nightmare. The rafted boats had broken their bow line and were all pivoting away form the wharf towards a 40′ Canadian sloop against the wall. John Fallon, the ever-vigilant harbourmaster had the security guards climb onto the heaving freighter and yell at the fishing boats, trying to alert anyone. In the end, they

Miss Mat leaves the wharf

Heads out through the breakers

Will she survive?

threw rocks at the boats to awaken the crew and disaster was averted when the boats powered forward together and connected a new bowline

Soon after there was a huge explosion and this morning I was told that the large steel roller door of the Public Works workshop on the wharf had blown in. Their solution was to stick the door back in and park a truck up against it on the inside of the building. An hour later there was a tremendous roar and bright lights on deck and I again dashed up from the nav station to see an Air New Zealand 767 just above mast height. They had aborted their third attempt at landing and were struggling for altitude in the buffeting gale choosing instead to flew on to Tahiti. Aloha Airlines 737 also gave up landing and flew back to Pago Pago.

Early this morning when the forecast came through from Fiji, the harbourmaster ordered all ships and fishing boats out of the harbour by sunset until further notice. He later explained to me that with the forecasted northerly gale the ships wouldn’t be safe from seas breaking in the harbour and that it would also not be possible for them to put to sea to avoid harm because of breakers across the entrance. One by one the boats and ships jostled lines, poured on the throttle and went crashing and rolling out into a very angry sea. The locals lined the shoreline and wharfs, watching to see if the ships would make it through the surf and for awhile it looked like Miss Mataura was going to founder in the crashing breakers.

I really feel for the ship’s crews. Tonight the ships will either be cutting donuts or be anchored in very deep water off the outer reef in the lee of the island. We just had a powerful squall with a 150 degree windshift and solid winds well over 35 knots. If they don’t move quickly, they could be driven ashore in these conditions.

Three lone yachts in the harbor

The empty wharf

We’re lucky. When we anchored here a week ago Gary and I spent several hours in the water checking the anchor and surveying the bottom. We were able to find the old large mooring of the harbour tug, a huge hunk of concrete with ship’s chain leading to shore, so chained and shackled M.T to it in two places. Although now we only have inches under the keel at low tide even after moving rocks and rubble away from under the keel and rudder. I also wish our 60lb. CQR was further than 100′ out (all chain), but it has dug in so well that the anchor has disappeared so I hate to disturb it. I looked at setting a second and third anchor, but when I daily dive to check set up it’s all holding securely. Today the visibility was only 6″ and when I was snorkeling down to 9′, it’s eerily dark because of all the stirred-up silt. I couldn’t do much more down there if I wanted to.

On another note I’m thankful the engine is back to it’s reliable 100% status. For the past year there’s been a new rattley sound between 800-1000 rpm in slow forward or reverse. We thought it was the Max prop, but rebuilding it didn’t help. Peter, owner of Ovlov Marine the main Volvo

Amanda with the old and new damper plates

marine dealer in Auckland, suggested it might be the damper plate that transfers the engine torque to the transmission, and I remembered replacing that part on MT II at about the same number of engine hours, 6,500, so I had Peter DHL the part here to Raro.

Before the storm we removed the 62kg (110lb) transmission. Yes, it was a challenge, but with Amanda’s clever rigger lashings and galley chopping boards as blocks, we slid it back to discover the damper drive had nearly sheered and was just hanging on by shreds of silicone rubber. The replacement part has been redesigned and should last for many more thousands of hours. Were we ever thrilled to get it all back together the same day and to hear a quiet and smooth engine when we shifted into gear. The other option that Peter had mentioned was that the entire gearbox might have to be replaced. It would have had to been airfreighted from Gothenburg to Auckland to Samoa and would have cost NZ$9600 excluding airfreight.

Now it is 0100, the winds have dropped to 15kts and the torrential gully-washing rains have tapered off to a drizzle. I think I can catch a nap now before the next squall. I hope the weather is better in the morning as Amanda has her heart set on competing in her second Rarotonga Half-Marathon at 0700. I was going to do the 10k run again that runs simultaneously, but it looks like I will be standing anchor watch instead.

Sept 15, 2004 1300 19.49 S, 161.25 W, Log: 82,033 miles, Baro: 1017, Cabin: 82, Cockpit: 82

Broadreaching at 6 knots with 15 kt SE winds and 140 miles to Palmerston Atoll

We survived yet another cold front and northerly wind blast, but it kept us aboard and Amanda missed her run Saturday morning. Instead we waited until a lull in the weather and headed ashore to fill six canvas tote bags with fantastic fresh vegetables, herbs and fruit. It seems that at least half of Rarotonga shows up for the market even on a stormy day and it was fun to see many old friends and view the Island dancing. We also succumbed to pearl fever! Tokerau Jim, a young, very successful pearl shell carver from Manihiki has really taken his art to the next level and

We hold our breath as Miss Mat returns to the harbor

this year his detail is incredible. We also visited Amanda’s friends Temu and Lesley Okataki at their little Farm Direct pearl shop across from the harbour. We bought presents for everyone we could think of, plus extras for future expedition members to purchase. The prices are a fraction of Tahiti’s and the settings that Lesley and Temu use are very high quality from imported from Germany.

As the seas and wind abated the harbor was reopened and the ships were allowed to return in a mooring pecking order throughout the day. Unfortunately all was not calm as two yachts lost anchors to props of maneuvering ships. In the storms wake Amanda and I worked flat out until late Sunday night and then until minutes before our new Leg 5 crew arrived at Monday noon. With nearly everything checked off our list and we settled into orientation with crew only to be advised that we would have to move by 1600hrs to allow Forum Rarotonga, the largest ship from New Zealand, to turn around and leave port.

As an introduction into being flexible, crew spent the next 3 hours learning the finer points of releasing and securing a vessels as we detached all our storm trussings and positioned ourselves next to the just-returned patrol boat, Te Kukupa. Phew, we sure enjoyed a fun last night dinner ashore at Trader Jack’s on a base that wasn’t surging around.

Yesterday (Tuesday) was a blur. Between downpours we had several Palmerston islanders coming down to ask us to take drums of fuel, bicycles, 6 stalks of bananas and dozens of boxes of groceries, toys, clothes and school supplies to their relatives on Palmerston. Both of MT’s heads are now stacked to the overhead with boxes, but we drew the line on the bicycles, 55 gallon fuel drums and 6 huge banana stalks. Meanwhile, I was clearing out with customs, trying to sort out all of our mooring lines and help a German yacht find their anchor that turned out to be wrapped around the patrol boats prop plus finish our safety orientation. By 1330 Amanda had completed mainsail orientation and exhausted, we sailed out the narrow harbour entrance, destination: tiny Palmerston Atoll, population 60, 270 miles NW of Rarotonga.

Update 2 September 24, 2004

0600 14.28S, 171.13W, Log: 82,849, Baro: 1011, Cabin: 84F, Cockpit: 84F

Beam reaching at 7.3 knots in 19kt ESE winds, calm seas.

LAND HO!

Neil just sighted Upolu Island, 28 miles ahead on the port bow as the sun is rising spectacularly LAND HO!

Neil just sighted Upolu Island, 28 miles ahead on the port bow as the sun is rising spectacularly over Tutuila Island, American Samoa on our starboard beam. Most of the evening we’ve been enjoying the glow of Tutuila and now the rugged island is clearly visible, but just outside our 24 mile radar range.

Meet our Leg 5 Crew – Tom, Debby, Neil, John and Tim

What a great expedition this has been! From leaving Rarotonga totally exhausted, we had an excellent 270 mile reach and run up to Palmerston. Bill Marsters met us offshore again, as he did last year, where he had been fishing, and guided us to an anchorage spot. Amanda dove into the crystal-clear water with 200’+ visibility and swam around until she found a spot free of deep coral chasms and told us to quickly drop the anchor in just 23′, only a few boat lengths from where the surf crashed on the reef. I jumped in the water with a mask and snorkel, checked the anchor and was serenaded by the songs of the humpback whales that we had spotted breaching as we approached the anchorage. I

Palmerston Island

stayed aboard while crew went ashore and spent the entire day cleaning, drying and stowing the many lines we had used securing MT in Rarotonga plus sponging off the waterline slime that had accumulated while in Raro. Tom Hughes

Palmerston Island

Approaching Palmerston from the south meant we needed to skirt the reef areas around three of the six islands in the Palmerston group. The first impressions one receives from Palmerston include idyllic, beautiful, serene and welcoming. The colors were vivid and striking-blue of course (ocean), greens (palms, lagoon), and sparkling white (beaches). Our destination was the island farthest north; it’s the only one that is inhabited.

Bill Marsters met us at our anchorage and six of us clambered aboard his skiff, carrying with us a dozen boxes containing clothing, books, school supplies, etc that John and Amanda had collected and brought with them to help fill needs that the islanders had expressed previously. Bill motored us through a complex maze of coral heads and stones that eventually put us on the beach.

All ashore with Bill

Main Street

The boat park at the end of Main Street

Bill with his children Neb and Juliana One Girl

We were met by two toddlers and a lifelong-island resident named Inona, who was a great source of information about Palmerston. Palmerston’s history is virtually all built around the life of the original William Marsters (died 1899) who had three wives, dozens of children and scores of grandchildren. Virtually all of the island’s current residents are Marsters, members of one of the three original families. We were served coffee, tea and hot chocolate under the canopy of the Palmerston Island Yacht Club, which was an open air meeting place for any one on the island. Bill also served us green coconuts from which we drank the very sweetest and refreshing water.

Crew relax the Yacht Club

Bill drives off the collect the supplies

As we sat enjoying our drinks, we were joined by Ned, a five-year-old boy who delighted in demonstrating his jumping, climbing and spelling skills. We asked Ned to show us the island’s school, and he led us past very colorful homes, through a grove of palms, and past a fish processing facility to Palmerston Island school. Here we met Yvonne Marsters, teacher, principal and chief supply officer for the school. Yvonne, an New Zealand transplant to the island, teaches nineteen students aged five to fourteen in a one-room facility that has fifteen desks.She is an impressive person that obviously knows her business, but the school is continually in need of supplies. She had a wish list for paper, pencils, books, etc. and obviously desks.

Following John and Amanda’s example, we five crew members agreed to send such supplies as soon as practical after our return to the USA. Readers of this article may also be interested in helping out; if so, send whatever school supplies that you can to Yvonne at Palmerston Island School, Palmerston Island, Cook Islands, South Pacific. We know every one of Palmerston’s sixty-five residents will appreciate it.

Palmerston Lucky School

Yvonne Marsters – the school teacher

Yvonne explaining the school procedures

Ned and Juliana standing before the map that displays homeports and pictures of the visiting yachts and crews.

Palmerston and its people had a noticeable and beneficial impact on us visitors-we were glad we came, we were sorry to leave. If you have the chance to visit, don’t pass it up. If you do make it there, please say hello to Bill, Ned, Inona, Vvonne and everyone else for us.

Hey thanks Tom, it’s great to have help with these updates!

Bill brought our crew back in the late afternoon, everyone went for a snorkel, amazed at the water clarity and vibrancy of the reef, and we set sail for tiny Beveridge Reef, 300 miles to the west.

Here’s the scoop on our excellent Leg 5 crew, in their own words:

Neil O’Rourke, 37

With three life changes this year, I decided to take a South Pacific adventure. My wife, Krystol, is almost five months pregnant with our first child. We don’t know the sex yet, but between watches I dreamt that it is a boy. We’ll find out in February. The other life changes were changing jobs from a private law practice to managing a real estate development company and building a house in Cary, North Carolina.

I joined Mahina Tiare as both of test of my seamanship skills and as a test of whether the cruising life would be for me. As of Day 4, things are looking great – I feel comfortable on the boat and am learning a lot.

Debby Platt, 45 I am a real estate developer in Denver, Colorado redeveloping the former Lowry Air Force Base and quickly working myself out of a job. I have been racing my J-80 locally at the Dillon Yacht Club and nationally for the past three years. I can’t seem to get enough sailing! Two years ago I tried to complete my first blue water crossing from Bermuda to Charleston, SC. But the 60′ ketch had engine troubles and we never left port. I have joined Mahina Tiare III to build my confidence and skills in ocean crossings in order to do an extended offshore trip in the future. Upon my return I’ll also be looking for new real estate on one of the coast, so I can sail more year around.

Tim Sullivan, 61

Vacation Quandry Solved!

I found myself sitting in the cockpit of a sailboat in San Diego harbor with a strange problem. Most of my fellow cockpit loungers had been with me on a recent Far West Ski Assoc. non-ski event when we had spent three weeks in September, 2003 on an African photo safari. The trip had been a smashing success. Hundreds of animals of all types were spotted and photographed. On the last day in the bottom of Ngorongoro Crater in Tanzania we witnessed five lioness stalk and take down a warthog.

Our common problem after such a fantastic trip was: what can we do for vacation next year that will even come close?

The answer: a Mahina Sailing Expedition in the South Pacific. Warm sun, cool breezes, ultra clear water, very friendly local people, honing our sailing skills while sailing through paradise. We are only getting started, and already we are having a blast! (Tim is an electronics tech for Motorola in Arizona and is thinking about introducing his wife to coastal cruising before trying offshore passages later.)

Tom Hughes, 61

Picture this if you can: I’m sitting in the cockpit at 1630, there are virtually no clouds in the sky, the Pacific is the deepest blue and I am among my crewmates, a more friendly and interesting group I couldn’t hope to find.

And by the way, I’ve learned what blue water sailing means, and I love it! For days into the trip and I’ve gone from the low of being seasick to the high of being on Mahina Tiare as she does her stuff. This trip is all I expected and more.

John Wolf, 61

John forgot to write his bio, so here goes: he is an orthopedic surgeon from Cincinnati, Ohio who sails a Capri 18 on a nearby lake, sometimes with his college-aged kids, and sometimes singlehanded. He organizes a chartering trip annually to an exotic location with sailing friends and is excited that his wife will be joining him (hopefully) and friends on their next trip which will be a catamaran in the BVI’s.

Our sixth expedition member, Bryan Hall, 31 wasn’t able to join us because of a knee injury.

Winds stayed aft of the beam and consistent, so we arrived just after noon off the entrance to

Aerial view of Beveridge Reef

Beveridge. The only chart we have (and I believe the only chart that exists!) was hand-drawn by a yachtie a few years ago and John Fallon, Raro’s harbourmaster freely distributes it. Weatherfax charts from NZ had shown that a cold front would approach us and just as we entered the lagoon we could see a huge black wall closing in on us. We motored to the far windward end of the lagoon, dodging numerous large coral patches that reached to the surface, continued past the drop off to where the white sand was only 10′ deep, dropped the bow anchor with all the chain just as the heavens opened up. Winds gusted so hard that the rain felt like bullets as we rushed to get the second bow anchor, our trusty 44lb Delta, hooked up to chain and rode and set. We motored forward slowly at a 60 degree angle from the main anchor and dropped it also in the shallow, but when the wind blew us back, tightening the rode, it was wrapped around a huge coral patch. I jumped in the water, dove down 30′, but couldn’t carry the chain over the coral, so crew pulled the rode in, motored forward again and succeeded in anchoring us free of coral. Our extra precautions turned out to be unnecessary as the winds dropped back to 15 knots after the squall, and the cold front passed slowly that night with the winds shifting back to SE by midnight.

Debby Platt:

20 01.295S, 167 46.547W

Beveridge Reef is a spectacular heart-shaped 4 by 5 mile reef in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. As we approached the reef with our fishing lines out, we caught a 50+ lb. wahoo that filled our fridge and freezer. At the top of this heart-shaped island is a 12′ deep pass. There is no land or reef breaking the surface of the water. We went inside and anchored on the white sandy bottom. As we anchored, the sky opened up with a warm, fresh downpour. As we swam and showered on the stern of the boat, we watched a black-tipped reef shark checking us out.

John goes aloft for his own aerial view of Beveridge

An arty view from up the rig of our second anchor

Beveridge was a great location for our training on going aloft to check the mast and rigging. We took turns hoisting each other to the top of the mast, producing some spectacular photos of the reef. After spending the night and doing our training the next day, we set sail in search of land.

Here’s a parting verse from the poem

“A Shipmates Parting Toast”,

by my friend J.R.

Aye” the ocean can be a grand place-

When you stand your watch at three;

and you watch as stars streak ‘cross the night sky

and crash down in the sea.

Where they wake the lil’ fishes-and light the coral reefs

and perhaps spawn those spiny starfish-

you see washed upon the beach.

Thanks Debby!

The 140 mile passage to Niue was a breeze and with following winds we again rigged the whisker pole, reeling off those miles quickly. We arrived by noon, and luckily Chamberlin, our young customs officer friend was just completing clearing in another yacht as we picked up the fourth

24 Yachts at anchor at Niu

and last available mooring. Last year there were 19 boats on moorings, plus several more anchored and the place was a beehive of cruiser’s potlucks, dinners ashore and cruisers filling the local dive boat. This year there were only four other boats at anchor.

When Chamberlin came aboard, I asked what had happened to the other 15 moorings, and he said that they had totally disappeared after the cyclone. We had heard that Niue had sustained a direct hit in January from Cyclone Heta, but what we didn’t know was that it was a Category 5 Super Cyclone (the highest rating) with winds over 300 kph (over 150 mph) and a storm surge over 50 meters (150′) that had crashed over the 100′ cliffs, completely obliterating much of the populated side of the island. Gone was the hospital, museum, most of the government buildings, hundreds of houses, even brick and concrete houses, the hotel, dive shop and on and on. Although the islanders have had help from Tahiti and New Zealand cleaning up, the place still looks like a war zone. It was sad going ashore, and we were amazed at the buoyant attitude of the people we spoke with. We enjoyed seeing our old friend Mary Saunders of Alofi Rentals, now assisted by her son Les from New Zealand. Amanda and I rented bikes for a couple days and had a blast cycling around the north end of the island, completing the circumnavigation of Niue we started last year. Our crew got an excellent nature tour from Misa, a local barefooted naturalist and on Wednesday, Debby, Neil and Tim went scuba diving with Annie from Dive Niue (they got to swim with whales) while Tom and John explored the island on motorcycles and Amanda and I enjoyed more cycling.

Misa passes out another bush delicacy

Time for a cool drink courtesy of Misa

Coconut crab

The grib files and weatherfax showed another front approaching, forecasting headwinds for the last day of the passage to Samoa if we waited until Thursday to depart as earlier planned. Faced with great sailing or headwinds, this crew said, “LET’S SAIL!” so we slipped the mooring and took off on a flying broad reach Wednesday afternoon. We just lowered to whisker pole this morning as for the first time the wind came forward of 150 degrees true. Now it’s 0700, the sun is really up, we are zooming along at 8 knots and Upolu is getting larger by the minute! September 25, 2004 1600, 13.49S, 171.45W, Log: 82,902, Baro: 1016 Temperature: HOT! We’re All Set in Apia!

By 1330 we had entered Apia harbor and side-tied to a harbor tug. Minutes later a young Port Authority employee came by and said had notifed Customs and Quarantine of our arrival. As we knew that many government offices close early on Fridays in the South Pacific, we were delighted when the Customs inspector showed up a few minutes later, and then walked me down and introduced me to the Quarantine officials. As soon as I had filled out some papers and paid a small fee for them

Debby strikes a pose the resorts lush tropical garden

to incinerate our rubbish and bananas, I hopped in a cab and headed downtown to immigration. As was the case last year, the waiting room was packed with 40 Samoans waiting for passports or ID cards. Just minutes before they closed for the weekend, a helpful young immigration officer motioned me to the counter and then helped me fill out the seven entry declarations and ship’s declarations. We were then free to get off the boat, not having to wait until Monday morning! In minutes we had slipped our lines to the tug and were anchoring in the quietest, most distant part of the harbor. It didn’t take our Leg 5 crew long to get organized and we headed ashore to explore bustling Apia before shops closed.

We enjoyed an excellent dinner at Sails Restaurant which was Robert Louis Stevenson’s home while he was waiting for his estate at Vailima to be completed.

The next day crew rented a jeep and drove across the island to Coconuts Resort for dinner and an excellent Samoan dance show.

What a first class crew this was! Right on track till the very end, and always eager to learn and help with whatever needed to be done.

Samoan fire dancing

Update 1

Leg 6 – 2003

September 27, 2003 17.49S, 176.11E Log: 71,187 Baro: 1014 Cabin Temp: 81F

Broadreaching at 8 kts in 25kt SE winds, double-reefed main and jib

540 miles to Luganville, Vanuatu

Surfing Through the Night!

What a flying start we’ve had to Leg 6! Soon after we sailed out of the wind shadow of Viti Levu, Fiji’s largest island, the wind piped up to 35 with gusting 38 kts. The combination of shallowing depths and that much wind generated steep seas to 12′, providing our eager crew with some challenging surfing conditions. As it is often windier outside Malolo Pass, we had tucked in a reef before departure, and once we were into the heavier winds, Roger and I tucked in a second reef in the main. We also reduced the headsail by 50%, and still Mahina Tiare surged along, nearly touching 9 knots as she zoomed down the face of the large waves.

This is a type of passage that we find easy for crew to get the hang of ocean passage making. Very soon after they joined us at Vuda Point Marina, we set sail for a gorgeous uninhabited white sandy beach bay 12 miles away. With 18 knots of wind abaft the beam and flat water, we quickly covered the distance to the tricky entrance through coral. Once again Amanda surprised us with an unexpected overboard drill, this time she threw the rescue target (wadded up newspapers) through a port, completely surprising our crew.

The quiet, unnamed anchorage on Malolo Island gave us a chance to complete our safety and boat orientation in a cooler, quieter environment. Friday morning we covered watch standing, collision avoidance and galley orientation before crew headed ashore to explore the gorgeous beach and hike to the top of the hill for a view of all of the Mamanuca Islands. In the meantime I changed out the aft holding tank vent and pump out hoses for new ones that Len had brought down with him. No longer do we get ripe odors when the engine room warms the hoses. Whew!

View of Musket Cove anchorage from the top of Malololailai Island

Ratu Nemani Island bar and barbeque

We had a surprise in store for crew yesterday afternoon. We had only told them that we would be anchoring off a small island, so they were in for a treat when we anchored off Musket Cove Marina on Malololailai Island. Amanda had been marinating three chickens and cooked up some fresh green beans and pumpkin and we invited several other cruisers to join us for a barbecue ashore on Ratu Nemani Island, adjacent to the marina. With nearly 60 boats in the anchorage and another dozen or so in the marina, the barbecue island was jumping with great music and cruisers from many countries having a blast. Katie proved a great fire starter and Len a consummate barbecue expert, and before long we had a table filled with friends and food.

George and Julia Maynard, wooden boat builders sailing a Zulu, a 30′ gaff-rigged ketch from Port Townsend, Washington and Lisa and Eric, avid windsurfers sailing an classic Cal 40 from Hood River, Oregon joined us. We really like it when our crew can get to know cruisers during our expeditions. After dinner we all went to the main restaurant to listen to our Fijian friends playing guitar and singing. The tanoa (kava bowl) is always full when they are singing, and some of our crew accepted bilos of kava.

This morning we covered coastal navigation and plotted a safe course to the open sea, and to Vanuatu. We have an excellent forecast (thanks to Leon in Sweden and NZ Met Service) and should have following winds, gradually moderating, for the entire passage. It is a bit rough tonight, but crew have been attentive and there hasn’t been a single gybe or roundup yet.

Leg 6 – 2003, Update 2

October 1, 2003 2145 15.31S, 167.11E Log: 71,752 Baro: 1013 Cabin Temp: 83F

All Surfed Out! At anchor off Customs Dock, Luganville, Vanuatu and Playing Scrabble

What a passage! Winds dropped only to 12-14 knots for a few hours and then kept building until we

Landfall at Ambrim Island

were running downwind with full sail in winds 30, gusting to 35. Amanda hit 9.4 knots while we surfed through the gap between Pentecost and Ambrim Islands. We saw no signs of life, other than a couple of roofs peaking through the rows of coconut trees clinging to the hillsides.

Our crew have been first class, never gybing or rounding up as we pushed hard, trying to make it to port tonight before dark. As the winds increased, our ETA kept moving up and we had the anchor down off the customs wharf with nearly an hour of daylight to spare. Dinner tonight was seared wahoo (Spanish mackerel) caught this afternoon, mashed potatoes and kumera, and fresh green beans…not to mention brownies for desert.

We are exactly on track with our teaching schedule and look forward to exploring ashore tomorrow and Friday. Vanuatu is a primitive country, newly independent. Click here for a link to their national website, and here for the updates from our last visit Leg 6, 1998.

This will be our last update until October 19 as Melonie, our webmistress is headed to Paris and Rome with her husband Chris. We wish them a fabulous time! When they return you can hear about our visits (hopefully) with our Small Namba tribe friends in Banan Bay on isolated Malekula Island.

Leg 6 crew

Len, Tom, Roger, Katy, Sue, Debbie

Here’s our Leg 6 crew, a winning combination, and the first time in 14 years we have had three couples:

Tom Zacher, 43 is a dentist from Wooster, Ohio who sailed with us on Leg 4-2002 and who met his lovely bride, Sue Grimm, 44 when they were doing their residency after dental school. Sue, now an orthodontist, sailed with us on Leg 5-2002 and she and Tom decided it was time to stop chasing after their kids, Heidi and Tim, and share an adventure together. Heidi, 14, is a keen soccer player and Tim, 12, is a competitive Optimus sailor and for family time they race their Beneteau First 40 on the Great Lakes. Debbie Campbell, 43 and Roger Campbell, 44 met when they were working at McDonalds, just out of high school. They went on to university, and then Debbie supported them and put Roger through dental school. Now Debbie runs the front office of their dental practice in Seattle, and they enjoy sailing their Catalina 320 out of Des Moines, south of Seattle. BB Katy Friedel, 55, recently retired as a school librarian in Chicago, and she and her husband Len Friedel, 57, a retired equity fund manager recently sold up in Chicago and moved to picturesque Port Townsend, just across the Straits from Victoria, Canada. They were looking for a seafront small town where they could have a boat moored near their house, and chose a gorgeous spot. They bought Magic, a nearly-new Hallberg-Rassy 42 that we spent time on during this past January Seattle Boat Show, and have already had a great time cruising the San Juan Islands. Len is already going over our charts of Alaska and the Queen Charlottes, making notes for their eight week cruise to Alaska next summer.

Once again, we have great synergy occurring. Lots of good times, laughs, jokes and people happy to help each other. We feel honored to share Mahina Tiare with new friends eager to discover the joys of the cruising life, from overcoming their fears of the high seas to embracing new adventures ashore.

Update 3

Leg 6 – 2003

September 8, 2003 0140 hrs 17.30S, 168.07E Log: 71,876 Baro: 1013 Cabin: 80F

Beam reaching at 8 kts in 25 kt easterly winds with only 24 miles to Port Vila, Vanuatu

Full Speed And Full Moon!

Well, once again, time has flown by. On our last update we had just arrived in Vanuatu. Quarantine, customs and immigration clearance went smoothly, and instantly brought back memories of why we enjoy the Ni-Vanuatu people so much. Initially they seem much shyer than the boisterous and self-confident Fijians, but once approached, they are sweet and lovely people with a great sense of humor.

After clearing customs, I was keen to see if we could line up Toto, a Ni-Van guy that had shown our Leg 6 1998 crew his village and around the island. I sat down with a group of local men at the gas station (there are only two) that I knew Toto used as a base, and started asking questions. Slowly I learned the story, Toto had a new van, his cousin Moses had brought their villagers in from Champagne Beach (where they live) that morning, and was somewhere around town. I told the guys that Toto was a friend of ours from five years earlier, and that we would like to arrange for him to show our crew around the island. I left a note with the name of the boat, and returned to the boat to take crew ashore.

Crew had hardly walked into town before Moses, with a policeman in tow, screeched his van to a halt in the middle of the street and asked if they were from Mahina Tiare. It wasn’t hard to spot visitors; I hadn’t seen one white fella (European) all morning! Quickly it was arranged that I should call Toto on his cell phone (totally new concept in Vanuatu) that evening to arrange for a tour the next morning.

As the quarantine anchorage became choppy in the daytime tradewinds, Amanda and I moved MT to an island anchorage off Aore Resort, www.aore.net a yachtie-friendly island resort across the harbor with eight moorings, dinghy dock, showers, water and great dinners. They have a ferryboat (just a large covered skiff) that goes back and forth two miles to Luganville, and our crew caught that back after exploring the small town for record nine hours.

Not long after we anchored, Kathy Seigismend and Ken Machtley on Felicity, www.svfelicity.com, a Tashiba 31 came by to say hello. Kathy sailed from Victoria to San Diego on Leg 1 – 2000 and then she and Ken left from Seattle on their own cruise just weeks after she returned. We instantly invited them to join our crew and us for dinner at Aore, eager to hear of their adventures.

Cathy and Ken aboard Felicity

A couple mornings later Lois Crandell who with her husband Gunter Hofmann sailed from Raro to Pago with us on Leg 3-98 came up on the local SSB Net and said, “Remember us? We did it! We’re out here cruising on our new Catana catamaran that we have sailed from France!” Their website is www.pacificbliss.com. We are going to start a new section called Expedition Graduates Websites under our Sailing Links page, so you, our readers can read of the adventures of our previous expedition members. There is nothing more exciting than meeting past expedition members out here having their own adventures!

We had a neat experience on our second day in Luganville. Crew had hooked up with Toto and were off on a grand adventure. First stop was a kastom village of the followers of the Jimmy Stevens independence movement and other sites through out the day included the blue water holes and traditional laplap lunch at Champagne Beach cooked by Toto’s wife.

Tour guide Toto and crew about to head out for a day’s overland adventuring

Village house

Smiling children

Blue hole

Toto’s wife preparing traditional laplap lunch

Champagne Beach

Meanwhile Amanda and I finished up with outbound customs clearance and then went shopping in the market and the handful of Chinese grocery shops. As we walked by the little bamboo thatched Nambawan (number one) Cafe we heard 15 or so kastom (traditional) men dressed only belts with little bits of fabric playing guitars and slit drums and kind of marching and dancing back and forth. They had just started a lunchtime performance and we were only the second couple to sit down and soak up the atmosphere.

String band from Mavoonlefu village

We learned from Terry and Covina Sims that this was the first time this string band had ever performed in town. They were from a Mavoonlefu, a poor village 30 minutes truck ride away, and had come to Terry and Covina, who had just bought the tiny restaurant after visiting Vanuatu on holiday from New Zealand, asking if they could help them start eco-cultural tourism. In a number of months Terry and Covina had helped them print up flyers, organize their custom dancing (with as many as 200 dancers) and use the money already generated to pay for all the children’s school fees for the year and build a new washing building for the ladies. The men were performing as thanks to the Sims, and their strange sing-song voices and rhythmic music was mesmerizing. Trucks stopped in the middle of the street, crowds of locals gathered on all sides of the little restaurant, locals and a few visitors came in to order lunch ($2.50US equivalent) and the place vibrated with energy and excitement.

While I was chatting with Terry and Covina, Amanda met the couple across the picnic table from us. Turns out they were Australians who also had recently come to Vanuatu on holiday, and fell in love with the people and the islands. They say a huge need for local shipping (there are very few ships) returned to Australia, bought a small trading ship and were now operating it as a business. So many times in the last week we heard about or met people who believed in making a difference. Hooray, not everyone in western society is just chasing money and status!

Banan Bay, 60 miles south of Luganville was the main reason we chose to return to Vanuatu. We set sail from Luganville at 0400, and after practicing storm tactics were anchored off Banan Bay by 1300. Not long after the anchor hit the water we saw a man launch a primitive, unpainted dugout canoe from a distance beach and slowly paddle our way. John Eddy, chief Saitol’s eldest son came to greet us. We instantly invited him aboard for lunch and renewed our friendship of five years previous.

Katy launches the Galerider drogue

Amanda: Everyone gathered around the lunch table fascinated to chat with John Eddy until we realized the mainsail was still up…oops. As crew scrambled to drop the main I quietly chatted with John between the large mouthfuls of food he discretely ate. We talked politely about our last visit and how the village and the gardens were doing. I didn’t want to appear too eager or pushy in asking about seeing their kastom dancing, we had to leave on in 2 days, and knew there was no dancing on Sunday so that left only Monday for them to perform for us. Then bingo, John quietly asked if we would be interested in kastom dancing I ecstatically said YES!!. “How would Monday suit us?” asked John…”Yippee, we’re in for a treat “was my answer.

Welcoming smiles from Chief Saitol’s son John Eady

Sue Grimm: On Sunday John Eddy met us on the beach at 0940 and led us all to church. Dressed in slacks, a golf shirt and sandals and carrying his Bislama Bible, he led us briskly down a long dirt road to the next village, about 20 minutes away.

The church was small inside with old pews on the right side for the men and bare benches on the left where women and children sat. The windows were all open, letting in a gentle breeze to cool the packed room. We were led inside and brought to the front rows to sit. The service and hymns were all in Bislama and we all sang using the Bislama hymnal. The young girls were dressed up with sparkles ion their faces and in their hair, and the men all wore long pants and a few even wore shoes.

After the service John Eddy organized us into a line outside the church where everyone who had attended filed by to shake our hands. We were then escorted back to “our” village where our new friends invited us back to the village at 1500 to visit, after they had eaten lunch.

When we returned, we sat on mats, sang songs and played string games, visiting and waiting for the others to return from afternoon Bible study. What a lovely day of getting to know these wonderful people!

Monday, October 6, 2003

Roger Campbell: Our third day at Banan Bay was dental clinic day. Our crew walked to the clinic in the next village, 20 minutes away, loaded with toothbrushes and toothpaste to distribute. When we arrived, there was already lineup as the message that we would be conducting a dental clinic had spread.

Peter, the first in line had a toothache so painful that he was willing to have it removed without anesthetic. By the end of the morning we had checked around 20 people.

Dental team extracting a tooth

Villages intrigued with the outdoor dental clinic

Teeth cleaning instructions

Crew donating toothbrushes and toothpaste to the clinic staff

Roger: Over the SSB Namba Net covering Vanuatu waters, John had put out the work that there would be a large kastum dance at 1530 Monday afternoon, inviting any boats in the area to join us. We hoped another boat or two would arrive, and were surprised when we returned to the village to see eight other boats and learn a total of 30 yachties would be attending the dances. At 1500 vatu ($12US) each, this would provide one of the few sources of cash income, to be shared amongst the villagers at the end of their financial year.

The kastom dances were amazing. Sixty men, dressed only in penis wrappers, paint, headdresses and feathers performed four traditional dances that shook the ground and filled the air with dust. The former sweet and gentle villagers that we had been chatting to only an hour earlier now danced fierce meaningful dances, swinging heavy wooden clubs, chanting, shouting and gyrating. Between the dances pride and happiness shown on their faces.

The kustom dance band

Ceremonial headresst dance

The Waverly Courtship Dance

The dancing heats up

The first dance was ceremonial dance that involved tall pointed headdresses. The second dance gained momentum, as it is preformed before the clubbing of a pig that then gives the chief higher status.

Amanda and Katy joining in the women’s dancing

The third dance of courtship shook the ground but it was the fourth dance held in a sacred garden that was a masterpiece. Danced by the village men before the circumcision ceremony of 12 year old boys the dance also call the spirits that live in the recovery thatched house along side sacred tam tams (tikis).

The village women are not allowed into to enter the area or see the men dancing, and they performed there own dancing, a type of line dance including 60 women and children. On their second dance, they invited the yachtswoman to join in, and a few did.

Len presenting Chief Saitol with a 2 year scholarship to the trade school

After the dance we were all presented with drinking coconuts and asked to introduce ourselves. Then Amanda led the kiwis (a majority of the yachties) in a Maori haka war dance, which the villagers loved.

Len presented Chief Saitol with a scholarship donation from entire crew of Mahina Tiare, providing school fees for two years for one student to the new vocational school being set up on Malekula to provide secondary education in business, carpentry and agriculture.

Next the men laid out woven mats inviting all the visitors to sit on the ground and sample laplap, a mixture of yams, taro and cassava that we dipped in coconut milk.

Traditional laplap dinning

Crew and Small Nambas strike a pose

Amanda, who was fondly remembered for her Tahitian dancing from our last visit, had been repeatedly asked over the past few days to dance again. This time better prepared, she had made a flower crown and borrowed a grass skirt from her dear village friend Jean. She performed dances from Hawaii, Tahiti and Fiji to the silent, watchful and appreciative village audience until the batteries in her boom box died. Crew even managed to join in with a funk number and chief Saitol also shook his booty on the dance floor.

Amanda performing for the village

The children followed us back down the beach to the dinghy, proudly and enthusiastically singing their school and church songs. These warm and generous people will stay in our hearts always.

Early yesterday morning (Tuesday) we left our Banan Bay on Malekula for the short 28 mile jump to Epi Island, not expecting winds to 34 knots and steep head seas. The winds increased instead of decreased as we closed on Epi Island, and it was not much fun. In 1998 we sailed directly from Banan Bay to Port Vila, about 130 miles, but this time we heard of a very friendly dugong and dozens of sea turtles in Lamen Bay on Epi, so we decided to leave a little earlier (0500) and stop for the day.

Arrival at Lamen Bay, Epi Island

What a great idea that proved! Lamen Bay is large and protected from all but the west, and is a prosperous looking village with a boarding high school, an airstrip, a small village-run guest house and restaurant and very friendly people.

After anchoring and lunch, we heard from another boat anchored nearby that the dugong had been feeding (they eat sea grass) along the far shore earlier in the morning, so we swam and drifted with the dinghy, hoping for a glance of this friendly 8′ long mammal that loves to have its back scratched. Instead we saw two sea turtles, myriads of brightly colored tropical fish and some very healthy coral.

The elusive dugong

…who likes to be scratched

Soon after swimming we piled in the dinghy to explore ashore. Crew walked the length of the village, found the only shop closed, and watched a Twin Otter land and pick up passengers. Amanda and I had only walked a short distance before she stopped to chat with a woman plaiting a basket. Bennington, an outgoing and chatty woman, admired Amanda’s woven flower crown, having never seen anything like it. Amanda offered to show her how to make one, and she excitedly took Amanda in tow to her house and started collecting bougainvillea and brightly colored leaves. More women and several men gathered around, excitedly commenting that they could make these to sell when an Australian cruise ship visits the village every couple of months.

The canoe parking lot in Lamem Bay

I meandered down the beach to look at the village commuter parking lot. A dozen or more dugout canoes were pulled up on the beach. Only one had a mast and a Dacron sail. We had heard from yachties earlier that most of this village of 300 paddled two miles from Lamen Island where they lived to work in their gardens on Lamen Bay every morning and sailed back each evening. Other than the one canoe with a mast and sail, I couldn’t figure how they would sail home, downwind. Just before sunset, I had the answer! Canoe after canoe sailed swiftly by us at anchor, powered by a couple of palm fronds amidships on the canoe, held up by branches and string. Amanda’s friend Bennington had earlier explained that originally they slept on the island to avoid the mosquitoes and malaria at Lamen Bay. Now they have cleared much of the undergrowth and although mozzies are rare (at least during the cool winter dry season months) they still continue their commute.

After Amanda’s birthday celebrations we departed with two reefs in the main and three in the headsail. We delayed leaving Lamen Bay on Epi Island until just before dark, planning that we would cover the 80 miles to our final destination on Leg 6 at a leisurely six knots. The winds didn’t drop after dark as usual, and we have had one very fast sail! This time we were prepared, with hatch covers on all three deck hatches, high lifelines rigged, and a double reef in the main.

Amanda’s birthday celebration

September 9, 2003

1300 17.44S, 168.18E Log: 71,898

On a mooring, Port Vila Harbor

Wow, another expedition finished in a blur!

Winds dropped once we were in the lee of Efate Island, and we motorsailed the last few miles, arriving just after dawn. We tied to Yachting World’s fuel dock and washed down MT while waiting for them to open so crew could give them laundry and we could get fuel. While I hunted down customs and immigration offices, Amanda taught double-braid splicing, turks heads, sail repair, winch maintenance, rig check and going aloft…phew! One busy morning!

In the afternoon expedition members shopped for treasures before meeting back at the boat at four for the expedition test. That evening our graduation dinner, and more birthday celebrations for Amanda, were held at Rossi’s a delightful waterfront restaurant. Over the past two weeks we completed our teaching goals and had had more land experiences than we thought possible!

UPDATE 1

May 16, 2003 0200hrs 39.43S, 174.59W Log:65,567 miles Baro: 1029 Cabin: 65 F Beam reaching at 6.5 – 7.5 in 12-18kt S winds, on the edge of the Roaring Forties

This is our most difficult passage as we spend over 2,000 miles in or just above the Southern Ocean’s Roaring Forties (40 degrees south latitude). It is also a challenge to have the most difficult, longest and coldest passage as our first of the season. Amanda and I have just returned

Auckland City

from four months of shore life to an always busy two week period of recommissioning and relaunching Mahina Tiare, provisioning for eight people for four weeks, and reconnecting then saying goodbye to family and friends in New Zealand.

At anchor at Rangitoto Island

The recomissioning this year included painting the bottom, getting the liferaft repacked and bending on our new mainsail and recut 130% geona from Port Townsend Sails. Everything went very smoothly this year, so smoothly that we were able enjoy two nights anchored at Rangitoto Island and to take a day off and travel southwest from Auckland to Piha Beach, where we enjoyed a night in a little cabin above this surfing village and beach. Amanda had come to this beach as a girl with her family, and it was fun to explore it together. The beauty of the New Zealand countryside, bush and coastline, only 40 minutes from downtown Auckland was stunning.

Before we knew it, our final weekend was upon us. This is when we do our fresh goods provisioning, say goodbye to friends and stow the gear that arriving crew have kindly brought down for us.

On Friday I checked in with Bob McDavitt on MetService NZ and he told me that there had been steady easterly winds blowing since December, and to expect a difficult passage to Tahiti with persistent headwinds. We scheduled a weather briefing for Monday afternoon with our entire crew, and hoped for a change in the pattern.

Leg 1 Crew – Blake, Peter, John, Elizabeth, Cam and Rick

Crew arrived Monday noon, and we launched right into orientation. It is always a highlight to introduce our crew to the weather briefers, and Monday afternoon was no exception. Bob McDavitt had drawn up a special forecast for us, suggesting we sail a direct course for Raivave, in the Austral Islands. This was a shocker for us, who have always planned to head south to pick up the Westerlies, just above the Roaring Forties on the last eight times of making this passage. Bob showed the start of a possible low pressure cell, coming down from Fiji, that he thought might just be a problem for us four days out. He thought that if we headed south, then east, as planned, we might be stuck in some very strong winds of a squash zone, between the low and an already present high pressure cell.

Leon Schulz, our German friend in Sweden that has helped us with weather ever since his wife Karolina sailed down the coast of Norway was as shocked as we were with McDavitt’s advice. Leon said, “Head down to 40S and then sail east”. Commanders’ Weather in Nashua, NH concurred, so we decided to take the longer, southerly route, in hopes of following winds instead of headwinds.

M.T at the downtown Customs dock

Customs officials visit onboard for outbound clearance

Liferaft orientation

Tuesday morning we lined up for last shore showers in the dark, and were on the Customs dock to pick up our outbound clearance by 0900. We had a spectacular sail out of Auckland Harbor and the Hauraki Gulf, with following 20 knot breezes and lots of sun as we sailed past sheep-covered green islands where Amanda had grown up sailing, rounding the top of the Coromandel Peninsula, and sailing southeast along the coast toward East Cape, the easternmost tip of New Zealand. As we turned and sailed southeast along the Coromandel’s east coast, we enjoyed smooth water, a fine breeze and spectacular moonrise. All the next day we sailed close along this rugged and spectacular coast, passing the occasional farm, but no cities and only one town, Hicks Bay, just before East Cape.

Peter helms along the Coromandel coast

Rig check class – rigging the staysail stay

As the coastline fell away to the SW after East Cape, the coastal shipping and fishing boats disappeared, and we were alone on the Southern Ocean. The large and impressive SW swell, the soaring albatross and dropping temperatures remind us that we aren’t in the subtropics any more! Each night becomes colder, and hats and gloves are now essential for comfort on night watches. In order to save space and weight, I have a minimum of “winter” clothes on board. Now I am wearing and sleeping in all of them! Amanda, more practical, is enjoying a toasty mummy bag that one of our Cape Horn crew donated after an expedition.

This afternoon we reached 37.40 S, just 20 miles from 40 degrees south, and almost magically, the wind changed from SE to S, giving us a beam reach, as we turned to sail straight east. An enormous high-pressure cell stretching all the way to Tasmania with a center pressure of 1034 is the reason we have had to sail this far south to avoid headwinds. It has been stationary, and is now only moving at 5 knots, so we will sail as efficiently as possible to stay on the leading edge as long as possible. Surprisingly, we have had small mini-squalls fairly frequently, where the winds will increase from an average of 15 knots to as much as 33 knots, even though our barometer reads 1029. Our sturdy and eager crew has been getting a lot of practice at sail trim and helming in these changing conditions.

Speaking of crew, before I introduce them, I should let you know that these are a special and select crew. As this is by far our most difficult leg ever, more difficult than even our Cape Horn to Antarctica leg in 1996, we are extremely particular about whose applications we will select for four weeks of challenging sailing.

Peter Schmid, 35, spoke of applying for this leg when he was enjoying the difficult windward passage of Leg 4-2000 from Panama to Tortola, Virgin Islands. I will never forget the image of Peter hanging on to the bow pulpit for hours as Mahina Tiare charged north from St. Croix to Tortola, drenched with spray and blasted by salt, clad only in shorts and safety harness, with a huge grin on his face, yelling back to the cockpit, “Now this is REALLY sailing!” Peter, originally from Bavaria has been teaching mathematics at the University in Washington in Seattle and most recently in Paris at Ecole Polytechnique. His bride-to-be Donna Calhoun and Peter also shared the wild West coasts of Ireland and Scotland with us on Leg 7-2000, just before getting married in Paris.

Elizabeth Ells, 66, is another favorite of ours! She sailed with us last year on Leg 3-2002 and brings real joy, enthusiasm and determination with her. Elizabeth is originally from England, but came to work in Ontario as a biologist at Canada’s nuclear research facility in the 50’s. Recently, her daughters put an engagement notice for her in the local paper, and she beams when she talks about sharing cross-country skiing and traveling adventures with her new friend.

Cam Cambell, 46 is a cardiologist now living in Iowa City, Iowa who has an amazing thirst for adventure! Can you believe that he signed up for this passage after completing a similar passage from Wellington to Papeete aboard the powerful and capable 65 ‘ex-Whitbread Race winner, Flyer? On that passage, the Alaska Eagle, run by Orange Coast College and skippered by Richard and Sherry Crowe was close-hauled and beating for the entire 2400 miles. The headwinds were so consistent that they had to motorsail until nearly all of their fuel was exhausted, just to lay Raivavae. As they were short on time before the expedition was to end, they had to sail past Raivavae. One of Cam’s overriding reasons for making the passage with us is to be able to explore this spectacular, rarely visited island. Learning that, I really hope the weather conditions will allow us to stop! Cam and his wife Kathy just climbed Mt. Kilimanjaro in January. I think they are celebrating their four boys all being off to college now!

Rick Johnson, 32 is an emergency room nurse who is so motivated to go cruising that he worked 12-16 hours a day for 15 months as a nurse while living in his Geo Metro (this is not a joke!) to save money to buy a boat to sail off into the sunset on. He just bought the boat, a Moody 37 in Florida, sailed her to Alabama, ran out of money while refitting her and will go back to work in San Francisco (but no longer living in the Geo) once he returns to the US.

John Merritt, 36 of Walnut Creek, Calif., has long dreamed of offshore cruising. John’s lovely and capable wife Hanne, from Denmark sailed with us on Leg 6-2002 so we now get to hear more stories and see new pictures of their son Patrick, who at five speaks both English and Danish! John and Hanne sail their Catalina 36 on the San Francisco Bay, and John has sailed it offshore on singlehanded races. John who invented drugs for a biotech company that just shrunk is enjoying some time off work and more time with Hanne and Patrick before job hunting.

Blake Elder, 41 works for a software company in Silicone Valley, but maintains a healthy balance in his life, sharing a passion for surfing and mountain biking with his wife Dorothy who will be meeting him on Moorea at the end of this passage. Quietly confident and competent and always ready to lend a hand, Blake is a real asset to the expedition.

In fact, everyone onboard is a real asset. It’s a joy to work with and teach this caliber of crew. I most appreciate that this crew are totally living in the moment, enjoying every watch and every day, not counting down the days of the passage.

If you’d like to get some offshore experience and instruction, we still have a few berths available some great South Pacific expeditions this year:

Leg 3: Rarotonga-Pago Pago – one berth

Leg 4: Pago Pago-Suva, Fiji

Leg 5: Suva-Lautoka, Fiji

Leg 7: Vanuatu-New Caledonia

Leg 8: Noumea-Auckland

Tracy McClintock our office manager can answer or relay any questions you have on 360-378-6131 or sailing@mahina.com regarding the legs, and I can call you once we are in Tahiti to speak with you directly.

UPDATE 2

May 18, 2003 0135 39.41S 168.50W Log: 68,582 Baro: 1030

Emergency Rigging Repairs While Surfing Through the Roaring Forties

A few minutes ago three firm knocks came from the cockpit, ahead of our aft cabin, alerting us that we were needed on deck. Winds were 25-30 knots and we had been charging through the night on a broad reach in swells that the Roaring Forties are famous for.

I assumed Cam and Blake had spotted a ship, but Amanda who was first to the cockpit rushed back to put her foul weather gear and boots on, said, “Something is wrong with the mainsail tack”. I assumed the shackle that attaches the tack of the sail to the gooseneck fitting of the boom had come unshackled or broken, and climbed back into my bunk. Just a couple minutes later came the three firm knocks on the cabin side. Blake said, “Amanda needs help on deck, now!” so I hurried into my foulies and onto deck.

The solid stainless pin that acts as a swivel and attachment for the boom to the gooseneck had sheared its top cap where a U-shaped special shackle normally attached to the tack of the mainsail. Fortunately I found the sheared cap to windward on the deck. We were thankful that the pin hadn’t dropped through, as that would have resulted in the boom becoming detached and damaging the sail.

Amanda disappeared below, returned with some Spectra line, slacked the main halyard, and made a lashing to the reefing hooks on either side to get the mainsail tack secured again. We were concerned with how to best prevent the pin from falling to the deck if it wiggled just right (or wrong!)

Epoxying the sheared gooseneck pin

and looking at the tight fit of the cap on the pin, where the weld had broken, I came up with the idea of trying to glue the cap back on with epoxy. It didn’t take long to mix up some International Epi-Glue, warm it up in front of the furnace vent and to glue the cap on.

It was such a close fit that hydraulic action pushed the cap back off when I released pressure on it, so Amanda went ahead with an earlier idea of lashing a sail tie around the pin to prevent it from dropping, as a backup to the epoxy. That did the trick! As she tightened the lashing, epoxy oozed out between the pin and head. I used extra epoxy to glue the webbing in place, hopefully preventing it from slipping off or chafing.

Checking the previous evenings repairs

Setting the epoxy with the heat gun

In the morning we will email Vickie Vance at Hallberg-Rassy Parts and Accessories in Sweden to contact Selden in Gothenburg for a replacement part. Hopefully this repair will hold 2,000 miles till Tahiti! We will also look through our spares to see if we have a stainless bolt long enough to replace the pin until Tahiti, if necessary.

May 19, 2003 0945 38.32S 164.46 W Log: 66,036 Baro: 1033

Motoring just south of the high pressure center in calm winds and overcast skies.

The repair has held fine, in fact the pin hasn’t dropped at all, so there is no pressure on the epoxied on piece of stainless. Vickie Vance and HR Parts & Accessories in Sweden has already ordered a replacement pin from Selden Mast in Gothenburg, and Blake generously offered to have the part UPS’d to his wife Dorothy who will meet us in Tahiti. If all goes well on timing, we hope the will join us for the passage across to Moorea where she and Blake are planning a week together.

The large (huge, actually!) high that has kept all the lows and fronts south of us has slowly caught up with us, and for the first time we have less than 2 knots of wind. No matter, we still have enough fuel for 1000 miles and crew are happy to learn that the extra powering has resulted in full water tanks which means hot showers this afternoon.

We have been doing well on our teaching program, and yesterday when we covered electrical systems upgrading, we used Richard’s recently-purchased Moody 37 as an example. Richard has started upgrading the systems, but still has electrical gremlins to deal with. Today we will cover long range communications options for cruising boats, demonstrating SSB, INMARSAT C, INMARSAT-Mini M and Irdium systems.

Having never caught fish before in these high latitudes, we weren’t even going to bother trying until we were closer to Raivavae, that is, until Cam told us they caught three tuna during the same passage he made aboard Alaska Eagle. Out went the fishing lines,

Cam sushi’s on down

and in no time flat we landed a gorgeous 15 lb albacore tuna. Yesterday, just before class Richard spotted a huge commotion and splashing astern. We had hooked two more albacore, twice the size of the first! So far we have feasted on fresh tuna every meal but breakfast, and Amanda has just finished making Hawaiian poke marinated raw fish dish that is always a favorite. For lunch today we will have roll-your-own sushi rolls, complete with lots of wasabi!

Oops, it’s nearly time for class, so I’d better quit salivating and get ready for teaching!

Update 3

May 26, 2003 2115 28.27S 149.02W Log: 67,119

Baro: 1007, down from 1034 282 miles to Raivavae

Close hauled in 18-30 kt NNW winds with triple reefed main and jib

Battling an Intense Tropical Cold Front

On deck it’s pitch dark, pouring rain and blowing a near gale. Seas are rough and confused, and we’re being launched into an old swell that sends the boat shuddering. “Feels like you’re in a car wreck every few minutes” came a comment from Cam who’s parked in the bow. It’s been a long night with intense squalls that have peaked at nearly 40 knots. Even though we have been expecting this for the past two days it’s still a challenge to the nerves.

The John’s set sail

Cruising Spinnaker Glory

The huge 1036 millibar high that filled much of the South Pacific for the past ten days finally has been pushed aside. This hi