There’s a lesser-known Dr. Seuss tale called What Was I Scared Of? It’s an add-on to The Sneetches, and it’s pretty spooky if you’re around 5 or so. The antagonist is a pair of pale-green pants with nobody inside them, and the illustrations place those pants firmly in the uncanny valley, awakening horror-movie questions—Why are they running around by themselves? What makes them go? What do they want? I can’t help but have flashbacks to this early childhood trauma when I read about the new self-driving cars that are now roaming the streets of San Francisco like mindless Roombas (see Technology, p.20). The robotaxis look like something out of dystopian sci-fi, with their giant cameras mounted on the roof and their smaller but still obvious headlight cams. They can mostly…

What happened Donald Trump’s legal peril deepened this week as a grand jury in Fulton County, Georgia, charged him and 18 co-defendants under racketeering statutes for trying to overturn his 2020 electoral loss in the state. It marks the fourth time the former president has been criminally indicted since March. Refusing to accept that he had lost to Joe Biden, Trump and the others “knowingly and willfully joined a conspiracy to unlawfully change the outcome,” said the 98-page indictment, whose 41 counts include conspiracy to commit forgery, filing false documents, and impersonating a public officer. District Attorney Fani Willis, who conducted a two-and-a-half-year-long investigation, relied on Georgia’s Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO)—typically used to prosecute mobsters and drug rings—to charge Trump and his allies with engaging in a “criminal…

What happened Recovery workers using cadaver-sniffing dogs were searching the charred ruins of Lahaina this week, after the historic Hawaiian town was obliterated by the deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than a century. At least 106 people are known to have died in the Maui inferno, but Hawaii Gov. Josh Green said the toll could double over the next week. Many survivors said they received no warning from authorities as the blaze, moving as fast as a mile a minute, spread from surrounding grasslands into Lahaina’s densely packed neighborhoods (see Last Word, p.36). Some residents rushed into the ocean to seek safety; others were incinerated in their cars as they tried to escape on the only highway out of town. Authorities said most bodies will have to be identified by DNA,…

Peggy Konzack, a 102-year-old Roseburg, Ore., resident, has been teaching children how to swim for 54 years. The mother of two moved with Clayton, her now deceased husband, to Douglas County in 1945, and soon started swimming at the YMCA. Eventually, she participated in parent-child swimming lessons and became an instructor herself at 48. A vegetarian, Konzack still does a minimum of 10 laps five days a week. “What would I do if I didn’t?” she said. “Sit home and sleep? No. I’m going to keep going as long as I can.” Two California condors born in May at Pinnacles National Park just had their first health checkup, and passed with flying colors. The endangered species of vulture almost went extinct in the 1980s because of lead poisoning, and this spring…

President Biden’s re-election campaign faces two “real trip wires,” said Jonathan Lemire and Holly Otterbein in Politico: Joe Biden’s age, 80, and the investigation into his son Hunter. Just weeks ago, the younger Biden, 53, was “mere minutes” from finalizing a plea deal that would have spared him any prison time on gun and tax charges. The deal collapsed when a Trump-appointed judge questioned whether the plea deal would give Hunter blanket immunity for his shady business dealings overseas while his father was vice president. As a result, Attorney General Merrick Garland last week approved the request of prosecutor David Weiss to continue his five-year investigation of Hunter as a special counsel, which could mean a significant broadening of the probe. This is bad news for the younger Biden, “and…

Good week for: Clarifications, after Aditya Pai, a Democratic congressional candidate from California, announced via email that he was suspending his campaign due to “a lack of joy.” Pai quickly retracted that message, claiming it was “an emotional processing exercise” distributed in error “by a now former aide.” Remote work, with a Washington Post report that Sen. Tommy Tuberville, ostensibly of Alabama, no longer owns property in the state and has been residing for years in a $3 million beach house in Santa Rosa Beach, Fla. Suicide missions, with a new poll showing Trump critic Chris Christie with a 1-point lead over Ron DeSantis among New Hampshire GOP voters, just 40 points behind Trump. Bad week for: Germany, where news that a third of its trains were late last year has plunged the famously punctual…