About Folder

Title

Iceland: General, 1961-1963

Collection

Papers of John F. Kennedy. Presidential Papers. President's Office Files.

Finding Aid | Digitized Content

Digital Identifier

JFKPOF-118-016

Folder Description

This folder contains material collected by the office of President John F. Kennedy's secretary, Evelyn Lincoln, concerning Iceland. Materials include correspondence between President Kennedy and President of Iceland Asgeir Asgeirsson and the appointment of James Kedzie Penfield as United States Ambassador to Iceland.

Extent / Physical Description

14 digital pages

Series

Series 09. Countries.

Preferred Citation

Papers of John F. Kennedy. Presidential Papers. President's Office Files. Countries. Iceland: General, 1961-1963

Place(s)

Media Type

Use Restriction Note

Some of the archival materials in this collection may be subject to copyright or other intellectual property restrictions. Users of these materials are advised to determine the copyright status of any document from which they wish to publish.

Copyright Notice

Documents in this collection that were prepared by officials of the United States as part of their official duties are in the public domain. Some of the archival materials in this collection may be subject to copyright or other intellectual property restrictions. Users of these materials are advised to determine the copyright status of any document from which they wish to publish.

The copyright law of the United States (Title 17, United States Code) governs the making of photocopies or other reproductions of copyrighted material. Under certain conditions specified in the law, libraries and archives are authorized to furnish a photocopy or other reproduction. One of these specified conditions is that the photocopy or reproduction is not to be "used for any purpose other than private study, scholarship, or research." If a user makes a request for, or later uses, a photocopy or reproduction for purposes in excesses of "fair use," that user may be liable for copyright infringement. This institution reserves the right to refuse to accept a copying order if, in its judgment, fulfillment of the order would involve violation of copyright law. The copyright law extends its protection to unpublished works from the moment of creation in a tangible form.

Page Last Updated:

October 28, 2023 10:01:49 AM EDT