Tour Description

On June 27, 1945, President Harry Truman returned to Jackson County Missouri, where he got his political start, to visit Kansas City and to spend some time at his home in Independence for the first time as President.

It was on this tour that he gave his first and only press conference at the Memorial Building in Independence.

He met with constituents at his office in Kansas City, including a delegation of leaders from Kansas City's African American community. He accepted an honorary doctor of laws degree from Kansas City University. This tour details these events.

Locations for Tour

1

Harry Truman Returns to Jackson County Missouri as President Fairfax Airport Kansas City, Kansas

The President's plane landed at the Fairfax Airport in Kansas City, Kansas, around 1:30 C.S.T. on June 27, 1945. He had just returned from San Francisco where he had signed the United Nations Charter that committed the United States to support…

2

Harry Truman Returns to Jackson County Missouri as President Kansas City Motorcade

The Kansas City Star and the Kansas City Call, the city's African American newspaper, covered President Truman's motorcade procession to Independence via the streets of Kansas City. Well wishers, both black and white, lined the streets to…

3

Harry Truman Returns to Jackson County Missouri as President Independence Motorcade

President Truman's blue Cadillac approached the Independence square via West Lexington and circled the square traveling west on Maple Street, directly in front of the 1933 Courthouse, which he had remodeled when he was County Judge. The…

4

Harry Truman Returns to Jackson County Missouri as President Arriving at 219 N. Delaware

Truman arrived at 219 N. Delaware a little after 2:00 p.m. after his motorcade had traveled through the Independence square. Well-wishers and on-lookers were there to greet him along the parade route and at 219 N. Delaware, which at the time did not…

5

Harry Truman Returns to Jackson County Missouri as President Memorial Hall Press Conference

The President's press secretary, Charlie Ross, who also was in the same 1901 Independence High School graduating class as the President, announced to the press before arriving in Kansas City that the President would hold an official press…

6

Harry Truman Returns to Jackson County Missouri as President Grandview visit

Harry Truman never missed an opportunity to visit with his mother when he came back to Jackson County. While his jaunt to Grandview was quick after the Memorial Building press conference, he was clearly pleased to see her. They probably met at her…

7

Harry Truman Returns to Jackson County Missouri as President Dinner with Friends

After holding the press conference in the Memorial Building on the afternoon of June 27th, the president traveled to Grandview where he briefly visited with his mother. Then he traveled back to 219 North Delaware and rested a bit and prepared for a…

8

Harry Truman Returns to Jackson County Missouri as President RLDS Auditorium

On June 27, 1945, Harry S. Truman addressed his friends, neighbors, and nation at the RLDS Auditorium in Independence, Missouri. Just like the parade, the coverage of the address included members from the black and white press and the Kansas City…

9

Harry Truman Returns to Jackson County Missouri as President Visiting 216 N. Delaware

On June 28, 1945, around 9:00 a.m., Harry Truman started his day by visiting his aunt, Ella Truman Noland, and cousins, Nellie and Ethel Noland, at 216 N. Delaware. Ella Truman Noland was an older sister to John A. Truman, Harry Truman's…

10

Harry Truman Returns to Jackson County Missouri as President Kansas City Federal Building

The president started the second day of his visit home by first visiting his Aunt Ella Noland at 216 N. Delaware Street in Independence and then he traveled to his office in Kansas City, which was located in the federal building at 811 Grand Avenue. …

11

Harry Truman Returns to Jackson County Missouri as President University of Kansas City

After Truman finished greeting all of his customers at the Federal Building on Grand, including the delegation of African American leaders from Kansas City, he made his way to the quadrangle on the campus of Kansas City University to attend an…

12

Harry Truman Returns to Jackson County Missouri as President Municipal Auditorium

President of Kansas City University, Clarence R. Decker, conferred an honorary degree on President Truman at a ceremony that was held at the Municipal Auditorium at 8:30 in the evening. The president delivered a formal speech in response which…