March 1, 2024

In Loving Memory ~

Arthur (Art) Maxwell, aged 80, passed away peacefully in Nelson BC on March 1, 2024, with his loving family at his side. For 20 years, Art battled his difficult neurological and heart diseases with exceptional positivity, grace and humour.

He is survived by his devoted wife of 55 years, Lorna; son David; daughter Lindsay (Trevor); beloved grandchildren Mason and Hayden; sister Lynne (Peter); nieces Kimberley (David), Maura (Ben), Beth (Randy); nephews BA (Amanda), Ian (Ellen), Warren (Laura) and many great nieces and nephews.

Art was predeceased by his parents, Florence and Harry Maxwell, his twin sister Paula Belton and brother-in-law Ron Belton.

Art was born in 1943 in Sydney, Nova Scotia. At the young at of five, his family moved west by train to Nakusp, BC where Art was raised in the beautiful BC interior.

After finishing his high school years at LVR, Art attended Notre Dame University in Nelson BC, where he obtained a Bachelor of Arts degree and later his teaching degree. At Notre Dame, Art met the love of his life and in 1969, married his soulmate, Lorna.

That same year, Art began his illustrious teaching career at Mount Sentinel Secondary School, then later at LVR Secondary School where he taught until his retirement in 2001. During his inspiring years as an educator, Art was a favourite teacher to so many. He was a kind, caring and compassionate role model and had a unique talent for making learning enjoyable and memorable for his students.

Art loved telling stories and had a wonderful knack for making his history lessons exciting and fun. Art's love for teaching history led him to spend many summers in Victoria, marking provincial government exams.

Art's educator influence extended beyond the classroom. He had a lifelong passion for sports, particularly basketball. For many years, Art volunteered countless hours as a high school coach where he led teams to provincial level tournaments, and later as a sports announcer, who inspired countless students to strive for excellence both on and off the court.

Additionally, Art served on the Board of BC School Sports, and locally as a Director on the Board at Granite Pointe Golf Club where he made significant contributions to the development of youth sports programs locally and across the province.

As an avid life-long athlete himself, Art played many sports, including men's basketball, fast-ball, downhill skiing, golf, and weight training at the local gym. He committed to staying active his whole life and was so proud to finally receive the coveted free senior's membership at the NDCC.

Upon retirement from teaching, Art and Lorna spent twenty-two wonderful years together as snowbirds at their beautiful winter home in Casa Grande, Arizona. There, they fostered wonderful friendships and memories through their shared love of golf, active living, socializing and travel. Also, Art was an active member of the Nelson Gyro Club for over 25 years, where he continued to serve and support his community.

Art will be remembered for his infectious laughter, his positive outlook on life, and his unwavering dedication to his family. He was a passionate and devoted husband, father and grandfather and nothing made Art happier than spending time with his loved ones, especially if it included a happy hour beer.

As a devoted fan, a Canuck's win also brought a smile to his face. Art leaves behind a legacy of kindness and love that will continue to inspire all those who knew him.

Art's family would like to express their deepest gratitude to the exceptional health care team who provided unwavering support and care throughout Art's life. Their compassion and dedication were truly remarkable, and the family is immensely grateful.

A heartfelt thank you is extended to Dr. Beadon, Dr. Mieske, Dr. Noiles, Dr. Tuvel, Dr. McBride, pharmacist Brody Blair, the extraordinary nurses in the KLDH infusion clinic, and the 3rd-floor nurses whose compassionate care for Art will always be remembered.

In his memory, please consider continuing Art's passion for youth in sports by donating to Kidsport, a remarkable organization dedicated to ensuring all kids can have the opportunity to participate in local sports: www.kidsportcanada.ca

Please join us on Sunday, May 5th, 2024 from 3:00 pm-5:00 pm in the Hume Room at the Hume Hotel for happy hour to celebrate the life of Art Maxwell.

To leave a personal message of condolence please see Thompson Funeral Service website: https://www.thompsonfs.ca