Her Imperial Highness Princess Olympia Napoleon gave birth to a son, HIH Prince Louis Charles Riprand Victor Jérôme Marie Napoleon in Paris on December 7, 2022. The Princess is married to HIH Jean Christophe, Prince Napoleon, the head of the Bonaparte house.

The news was announced by French journalist Frederic Natale on his Facebook page.

Embed from Getty Images

This is the first child - and heir apparent - for the couple who married on October 19, 2019, in Paris.

The 34-year-old Princess Olympia is the third of six daughters of the late Count Riprand of Arco-Zinneburg and HIH Archduchess Maria Beatrice of Austria.

Jean-Christophe is a descendant of Napoleon I's youngest brother, Prince Jerome, King of Westphalia (1784-1860), and his second wife Princess Catherine of Wurttemberg. His third son Prince Napoléon-Jérôme Bonaparte (1822-1891) was named heir to Napoleon III even though he had an older half-brother, Jerome Napolean, from his father's first marriage to Elizabeth Patterson, an American. A meeting of members of the Bonaparte family chose to exclude Prince Jerome's firstborn son from the succession.

Jerome and Maria Clotilde

Napoléon-Jérôme Bonaparte married Princess Maria Clotilde of Savoy, daughter of King Vittorio Emanuele of Sardinia and Archduchess Adelheid of Austria.

Embed from Getty Images

Their eldest son, Victor (1862-1926) succeeded as the claimant to the Bonaparte cause. He married Princess Clementine of Belgium, the youngest daughter of King Leopold II and Archduchess Marie Henriette of Austria, and they were the parents of two children, Marie Clotilde and Louis (1914-1997) who succeeded his father as head of the house. He and his wife, Alix de Foresta had four children.

Embed from Getty Images

Prince Louis' eldest son, Charles (1950) whose first married Princess Beatrice of Bourbon-Two Sicilies ended in divorce, was bypassed in the succession when his father died in 1997. The late Prince Louis chose to have his grandson, Prince Jean Christophe, succeed him as head of the house.

https://shannonselin.com/2015/02/jerome-napoleon-bonaparte/