The governor of California, Arnold Schwarzenegger, completed what analysts described as a remarkable political turnaround when he secured a sweeping re-election victory over his Democrat opponent.

Mr Schwarzenegger had won 57% of the vote with 70% of the precincts reporting, while his Democratic challenger, Phil Angelides, secured 38%.

"I love doing sequels," Mr Schwarzenegger told supporters at a rally in Beverly Hills. "This without any doubt is my favourite sequel."

Mr Angelides called Mr Schwarzenegger to concede shortly before 10pm local time (6am GMT), two hours after the polls had closed.

The victory comes just a year after Californian voters humiliated Mr Schwarzenegger by rejecting a series of ballot initiatives he supported. But, in the intervening year, he has gone back to basics, returning to the promise of bipartisanship that saw him elected in the 2003 recall election.

At the plush Beverly Hilton hotel in Beverly Hills the Schwarzengger campaign team partied in style. Hundreds of green, orange and white balloons cascaded from the ceiling of the hotel's International Ballroom after the governor had delivered his acceptance speech.

"I received a gracious and kind phone call from our opponent," Mr Schwarzenegger told supporters. "He is not our opponent any more. I look forward to working with him. Here in California we have proven to the nation that there is a better way to go forward ... We have shown the nation that leadership is about solving problems, about getting results."

By contrast, the defeated Angelides campaign held its victory party at the 10,000 sq ft Grand Nave Room at the Sheraton Grand Hotel in the state capital, Sacramento. Music by the Grateful Dead was played in the party's early moments.

Speaking after he voted near his home in Sacramento, the Democrat challenger said: "I have no regrets in this race. I have nothing but fullness in my heart. I know we stood up for what is right. We stood up without retreat, without backing down, without looking at the polls. We stood up for the people who needed a voice."

Mr Schwarzenegger also appeared to have gained approval for an ambitious public works programme. Four proposals backed by Mr Schwarzenegger and approved by voters earmarked $37bn (£19.5bn) in new borrowing to be spent on the state's infrastructure. The proposals covered spending on housing, transport, education and flood protection and, by backing them, Mr Schwarzenegger was able to defuse the challenge from the Democrats.

Throughout the campaign, at least in public, Mr Schwarzenegger did not so much campaign as carry out his duties as governor. A typical day would see challenger Angelides looking for hands to shake while Mr Schwarzenegger would appear at a photocall, often flanked by leading Democrats, to sign a piece of bipartisan legislation. Angelides made little headway in establishing either his personality or his policies with voters.

While some have questioned the calibre of his opponent, many observers argue that the reborn Mr Schwarzenegger was close to unbeatable. His name recognition and charisma enabled him to do away with the usual niceties of campaigning.

His courting of leading Democrats also enabled him to undermine his opponent. Indeed, many speculated that it served the ambitions of some Democrats, notably the mayor of Los Angeles, Antonio Villaraigosa, for Schwarzenegger to win. Under the state constitution, Mr Schwarzenegger is ineligible for a third term. His victory ensures that in four years' time the field will be open for the next generation of Democrat leaders to challenge for the governorship of the most populous state in the union.

And given that Californians have shown that they have little problem getting their tongues round the phrase "Governor Schwarzenegger", "Governor Villaraigosa" presents a small challenge.