Alexander Schubert, born in Bremen in 1979, studied information technology and cognitive sciences in Leipzig. At the same time, he was active in various contexts as a musician and composer. After working at the Institute of Music and Acoustics at the ZKM in Karlsruhe for a year, he studied multi-media composition with Georg Hajdu and Manfred Stahnke at the Hamburg Academy of Music and Theatre until 2010, completing his studies in 2018 with an artistic doctorate. Today, he is the artistic director of the electronic studio of the Lübeck Academy of Music, a professor at the Hamburg Academy of Music and a freelance composer.

Schubert’s musical background was originally the non-academic club context, within which he dedicated himself to Electronica, electroacoustic Free Jazz and Noise-Hardcore via various projects. These styles continue to have a major influence on his work, which occupies the interface of contemporary classical and experimental pop music. Live electronic compositions are part of his work, as are the design of software setups and the sensor-based expansion of instruments. A special focus is on the performers’ physicality, as their relation with new media is the focus of many of his works. One long-term feature of his activities is the combination of improvised and notated music. The invasive moment, the process of losing oneself in music and experiences beyond mere listening are the composer’s declared goals.

Apart from his activities as a composer, Schubert is also a founding member of various ensembles, for example the Decoder Ensemble. He also runs the music label Ahornfelder.

He has received awards and fellowships from institutions including the ZKM, the Giga-Hertz-Prize, Bourges, ICMC, NIME, JTTP and the Darmstadt Summer Courses, and commissions for compositions from the NDR, the International Music Institute in Darmstadt, Wien Modern, Ensemble Resonanz, IRCAM, ZKM, HCMF, Hamburg Cultural Foundation, piano possibile and Ensemble Intégrales, among others.

His works have been performed by the Ensemble Intercontemporain, Ictus Ensemble, Nadar Ensemble, Ensemble Mosaik, Ensemble Nikel, Klangforum Wien and the Decoder Ensemble, among others.

During recent years, his works have been performed more than 400 times in more than 35 countries, including at IRCAM Paris, Wien Modern, ZKM Karlsruhe, the Darmstadt Summer Courses, Issue Project Room New York, Wiener Festwochen, Rainy Days Festival, Acht Brücken, Deutschlandfunk Cologne, SMC Porto, NIME Sydney, Ultima Oslo, Kunsthalle Hamburg, Akousma Montreal, Klangwerktage Hamburg and ICMC Montreal.