JANUARY 21, 2022

Winter Term 2023 featured some perennial favorite courses, including Car Wars, The Great Outdoors, Walking Boston and SCUBA, while also introducing some new courses: Aviation, NYCinema, Sherlock Holmes and Learn to Snowboard. Emerging from the pandemic, students enjoyed a bump in travel opportunities both domestic and international, including trips to Cooperstown, New York; Philadelphia; New York City and Washington D.C., as well as further afield to Honduras, Portugal and Spain.

As a co-teacher of Nothing Ventured, Nothing Gained (shown above), I joined the students in learning about Portuguese history and culture.

Stateside, the students took part in an authentic cooking lesson from a first generation Azorean chef and made croquettes, paella and queijadas.

See an album of photos from the lesson and trip on brooksschoolphotos.com.

They got a crash course in Portuguese history, focusing in particular on the age of exploration and empire when “discoverers” sailed the seas motivated by God, Gold and Glory. Mrs. Mandzhukova-Wamboldt taught a lesson on Portuguese language, equipping students with the ability to offer greetings, express gratitude and order food, among other essential skills. Students began the process of journaling, and each prepared individual presentations on two or three historical sites that we planned to visit in Portugal.

We then crossed the Atlantic and landed in sunny Lisbon, where we canvassed the historic district, and visited St. George’s Castle, Belém Tower and the Jerónimos Monastery before enjoying a traditional Fado concert. We continued on to Évora to see the Roman temple of Diana and the Chapel of the Bones, with a special stop to Monsaraz Castle at sunset. Our journey then took us north to the coastal towns of Cascais, Nazaré and Aveiro, where respectively we enjoyed a scenic bicycle ride, trip to a surf museum and lighthouse and a gondola ride to learn about the local salt industry.

Next we walked the fortifications at Óbidos, before arriving in Porto. There we toured the palace, climbed up a clock tower, and learned how Port wine is made. To close the trip, we headed to the university town of Coimbra for some shopping, before checking out the Batalha monastery on our return to Lisbon. Along the way, olives and octopus galore were eaten, many photographs were taken, and countless memories were made in a beautiful country!

Travel changed my life when I was a high school student. It opened up the world as an expansive, inspiring and culturally rich classroom and showed me just how much there is to learn. I am grateful to Brooks for the opportunity to provide the same chance to another generation of students!

OCTOBER 24, 2022

Last week, I heard that Kyle Joyce '23 was on the hunt for zip ties, and it piqued my curiosity as to why he would need so many. I decided to investigate, and this query resulted in an invitation to Mr. Bauer's Introduction to Electromechanical Engineering class! During the extended block this morning, I found students happily tinkering with two, three and four-wheeled vehicles to add or modify motors to the vehicles.

Jake Lipani '23 explained to me that his group was transforming a beach cruiser donated by Dean of Students Mr. Forrest to become an Ebike. Since it is a rear-braking bike, the students needed to swap out the back tire for a wheel with a motor in it, which then necessitated prying open the metal frame for it to fit. The group then unscrewed the pedals and flipped the chain to be on the opposite side, while having to contend with different gear mechanisms.

Kendall Eddy '23 and Sarah Benjavitvilai '23 relayed that they are now working on the wiring, and troubleshooting an issue where the brakes are too strong and signaling the motor to stop. Their team has replaced the handle bar, added a throttle, and once they figure out the brake wiring, they will 3D print an enclosure for the wires.

In another corner, Shane Burns '23 and Brett Niland '23 were working on motorizing a Razor scooter, after having accidentally burned out a brushless motor controller. Mr. Bauer was reviewing the magnetization of motors, which need the two positive sides of magnets to repel so that the polarity enables the revolution. He acknowledged that some AP Physics started creeping into his lesson!

Across the room, Cali Bernier '23 and Jerry Chen '23 were working on souping up a kid's Power Wheels cop car with a motor that has ten times the power of the original. They were in the process of 3D printing a gear box enclosure.

Next to them, classmates Evan Wirth '23, Kerr Sjostrom '23, Connor O'Neill '23 and Kyle Joyce '23 were in between two impressive projects. First, they added a four-stroke engine to a tricycle, and explained to me how it works: gas goes into the cylinder, a spark plug ignites it, and the explosion moves the pistons. (They enlightened me that the "V" in a V8 engine refers to the orientation of the pistons.)

I learned that a four-stroke enables a slower build of power versus a two-stroke, which has more torque. Next, they are turning their attention to an ATV that Director of Communications Mr. Callahan lent them, in hopes of repairing and improving its performance.

All class members appreciated that what they're learning will help them beyond Brooks, in terms of their comprehension of machines, how to build them or fix them, and their general individual handiness and resourcefulness.

Quite a few students shared that prior experience working on their dirt bikes, or helping to repair the family leaf blower, had prepared them well for this course. And, several commented that they hope to continue with electrical or mechanical engineering in college!

June 4, 2020

Typically, my blog provides a weekly window into the student experience at Brooks. It matters that what our students experience in our classrooms, especially our students of color, reflects and affirms their identities. This week, I offer a “history department takeover,” to highlight the work our department chair Michele Musto (shown below) has led to more directly prioritize the study and appreciation for the lived experience of historically marginalized populations in our curricula.

On this topic, Mrs. Musto:

As the history department sat down to our work this week, top on our minds as a department were recent events in the news, which have affected all of us in different ways. As we watched the news of the killings of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and others over the last few weeks, we, as historians, are acutely aware that this is sadly nothing new. Since 1619, African Americans have been persecuted, discriminated against and killed. Just this Sunday, for example, was the anniversary of the Tulsa Race Riot in 1921 where mobs of white residents attacked and destroyed much of the primarily black Greenwood District of Tulsa, Oklahoma. The list of these acts of violence against people of color in U.S. history sadly could go on and on, and as historians we are acutely aware of this. We wish to stand with the many members of our community who face the realities of this history on a day-to-day basis, and we strive to make sure that all of our students learn about these events, as well as about the many wonderful contributions that communities of color have made to the rich fabric of American history.

One way the history department has taken to heart our need to address diversity, equity and inclusion in our curriculum was in our redesign of the sixth-form history electives. In past years, many of these electives were driven by the AP curriculum, but we recognized a need to spend more time on social justice issues and to present unheard voices in all of our senior classes in particular. To that end, our new slate of senior electives each will take time to address the topics of race, ethnicity, class, gender, sexual orientation and others, as they relate to each particular content area. We hope that this will be at the heart of each and every elective next year.

Below are some of the thoughts from your history teachers on their sixth-form electives and the work of diversity, equity and inclusion in the history classroom:

Ms. Johnston writes about her elective on Sports History and Culture — “Sports and DEI [diversity, equity, inclusion] work go hand-in-hand. Sports have a complex history of both empowering and disempowering individuals and groups fighting for equality. Many, like Jake Kyler of the Sports Business Journal, state, ‘Sport has the intrinsic ability to bring about positive social change in the communities where we live, work and play.’ There are also examples where sports have not been inclusive to athletes. You need to look no further than Colin Kaepernick, who was ostracized by the NFL for using his professional athletic platform to fight for those who have been silenced and killed, or Billie Jean King, who was fearful of losing her tennis career if news broke that she identified as LGBTQ. Sports can oftentimes be a mouthpiece for change. However, the history of sports is complicated and one that must be acknowledged and discussed.”

Ms. McDonough, in speaking of her history of the Middle East course, writes — “For supplementary materials, I've tried over the years to read from authors of the places or of the religions we are studying. I'm making a real commitment to this for next year to ONLY read these authors. I want to be sure I am elevating and celebrating the stories and voices from the areas and cultures covered in the course.”

Mr. Latham, who will be teaching our new Economic History courses, writes — “Helping students develop empathy for others is one of the reasons I teach at boarding school. Our students will have an inordinate influence on the world. The quality of our future depends on their respect for all people. This is vitally important for all of us to learn and practice.”

Mr. Waters, who will be teaching new Civics courses, shares — “My goal is always for students to feel like they can engage with the government and find their own voice. I am excited to focus more deeply on elections and local politics in the coming year with students, as the power of young people will play a vital role in the 2020 elections. It is important for students to understand their rights, to be able to discuss differences with peers, and to exercise their own civic duty.”

Ms. Nasser, who will be teaching a new Global Humanities course, writes — “I have been taking this time to reflect on my privilege, to learn more about racism through reading articles and books, and to having open discussions with my friends and family. I recognize that it is a privilege to learn more about racism instead of experiencing it. I continue to think about how I can incorporate all voices into my world history classes and encourage discussions on race. I recognize that there is more to be done than just talk and I am taking steps to change the things that I cannot accept about our country.”

Mrs. Waters, reflecting on additional offerings like Criminal Justice, International Relations, and Race, Gender & Class, that will be taught by Mr. Veit and Ms. Sauceda, offers — “Challenging American exceptionalism by better understanding the inequities transcending generations that have shaped our nation helps position students to engage in critical thinking and develop informed opinions. That’s who we want as our future leaders — informed citizens! We look forward to running electives in African American and Latinx Studies in 2021, as well."

All of this we recognize is just the beginning. The work to teach a truly inclusive history of the world is ongoing and ever changing. The work to fight against discrimination and injustice is work we must all partake in on an everyday basis. We also recognize that there are times when we may fail. However, the history department wants all of the Brooks Community to know this is front and center in our minds, and we are ready to contribute to the hard work ahead. Hold us to this and let us know when we fail!

Mrs. Musto and the Brooks History Department

May 13, 2020

This tree is right outside my front door. I have lived in Chace House since it was built in 2012. Eight years I have woken up, in all kinds of weather, and walked outdoors to load my kids in the car for school or walk toward main street to make my way to the academic building, with this tree right in my line of vision.

I LOVE trees. This time of year I rejoice at their buds, blossoms and leaves that mark the arrival of spring. I am also grateful for their summertime shade, celebrate their autumnal beauty in all shades, and marvel at their snowy majesty in wintertime. I become inordinately sad when we lose a tree on campus, although I know Mr. St. Cyr takes incredible care of them and makes decisions in the best interest of our campus ecosystems . . . I still am so bummed to lose what feels like an old friend!

The history enthusiast in me revels in the idea of witness trees; the idea that these leafy soldiers bear witness to history over hundreds of years, become living history themselves, and help to create a sense of place.

How is it that I don't even know what species the tree, right outside my front door, is? How can one become so accustomed to something's presence, reliant on it, and not even know it's name? It produces pods . . . I think it might be a locust of some sort . . . . but I can't say for sure! I find myself needing to know.

This is what happens when you slow down, and have the time and presence of mind to see what is right in front of you with greater clarity. While my school life remains as busy as ever, slower moments walking around campus with my children have allowed me to take note of seasonal campus features I hadn't appreciated before.

What else might I be able to see more clearly, right in front of me, that I couldn't before our lives changed this year? I am excited to find out.

April 20, 2019

Today is Grandparents' Day at Brooks School, which is always a joyful occasion. As a former United States history teacher, I have always appreciated the lived experience that our special guests have shared, which helps to make the lessons come alive. With that in mind, I popped into AP U.S., where a group was presenting on social, political and economic themes of Period 8 (1945-1980). After their slides, the students engaged the class in a board game called "The Search for Order," testing their peers' knowledge of the content. The grandparents jumped right in and impressed everyone — no surprise!

I also spent time today in AP Computer Science Principles, where students are working on preparing their submissions to the College Board. Elena Ranalli '19 informed me that they must complete two performance tasks, both an "explore — impact of computing innovations" and a "create — applications from ideas" component. She had just received feedback on her "explore" written and presentational elements (on the Venmo app) from her teacher, Mr. Kihak Nam '99.

As I worked my way around the room, I learned about the game "Swim Away" that Caroline Cutter '19 created using Scratch from MIT. We chatted about her interest in CS, which has been influenced by her brother who studies Cyber Security at the Air Force Academy. Caroline took a summer course at Harvard University during her fourth-form summer where she learned C++ and Java.

This year at Brooks, the students progressed to learning Python. I also connected with Tianshu Wang '19, who was creating a game we decided to call "Adrenaline Junkie." It simulates skydiving out of an airplane on a 2D plane and the objective is to avoid being hit with trash from wind upswells. He was working on creating a pixellated image of himself to serve as the avatar.

As I continued around the room, I learned about maze, snake, matching, card flip and ping pong games in progress. Nashr El Auliya '20 was creating a contact database using Python. I also spent some time learning from Marty Graham '19 who had been in Engineering Product Design the class period prior, and was finishing up his work on a breadboard, testing binaries as foundational work in electrical engineering. It was really cool to see students applying their knowledge and making things to serve a purpose, whether practical or recreational, and I look forward to experiencing their finished products.

November 9, 2018

On Friday night I took my five-year-old daughter to see "Stories from Afar," the fall student production. It was the last of eight performances across local towns for the troupe, who closed out their run in the Brooks black box theater, housed in the new Center for the Arts.

Featuring stories from Poland, China and Nigeria, about frog princesses and thieving dragons among other fantastical imaginings, the performances were lively and interactive. The little kids sitting in the front rows were called upon to supplement the storyline or jump in to act out a character. They paused for a singalong, led by Katie O'Brien '19, which you can enjoy in this video. As always, I was impressed by the commitment and talents of our students, and my daughter left enthralled by the storytelling. I think it's safe to say she is now looking up to the "big kids" more than ever!

NOVEMBER 5, 2018

This week, I spent several days on the campus of Northfield Mount Hermon School, serving on a Visiting Committee for the New England Association of Schools & Colleges. Every ten years, an educational institution under this association's purview must complete a reaccreditation process, which includes two years dedicated to the creation of a self-study report prior to the Committee's visit to campus. A colleague shared with me ahead of time that it would be hard work, but also some of the most rewarding professional development I would ever experience. True on both counts!

I learned a tremendous amount about the 15+ standards on which a school is evaluated, about how to truly engage in a collaborative writing process, and above all, a lot about NMH and their impressive programming, faculty and students, who were incredibly hospitable to us. A major bonus is that among my Committee colleagues, I found ten new friends from other independent secondary schools. I learned a lot from them and look forward to crossing paths at conferences and school visits in the years to come!

September 27, 2018

What is a robot? A good question to consider upon entering a Robotics class, and that is just what the students did to start off their semester. A brief survey of those gathered in the Robotics Lab informed me that robots are machines that can work autonomously.

I learned from Matt Costantino '20 and Owen Borek '19 that the first iterations of bomb-defusing robots weren't robots in the truest sense because they were controlled remotely by humans. The boys asserted that robots can sense, think, act and communicate on their own. They relayed this while huddled over their own creation, affixing a new sensory mechanism to its underbelly.

Mr. Hesse paused the class to teach them about While Loops, a coding feature that incorporates a control statement that allows the robot to repeat or skip a part of the program. This was important to the students' work, because in coding the robot to make its way through a maze, they were replacing the time factor with a distance-sensing factor. This allowed for the fact that robots might travel different distances in a set amount of time, but that if you code them to sense the distance they have traveled, then they can navigate a course with greater accuracy and consistency.

Using the While Loop, the code will prompt the robot to keep going back to test the condition until it's no longer true, then it will skip it. It asks the robot, "are we there yet?" and if so, then it can exit the While Loop and continue. I was impressed by the emergent fluency of the students using code-curly braces and everything in between!