WINTER HAVEN -- A.J. Johnson admits he likes the reality shows, the ones where ordinary people are put on national television to try their hand at fame and fortune, doing "things they don't want to."

He watches "Survivor" and "Fear Factor," and plans to start watching "Manhunt," about a group of people being hunted down with paint guns on a tropical island. Beginning Sept. 8, the 15-year-old Winter Haven boy will even be able to watch himself on another island on Fox Kids Network as one of 12 contestants ages 12 to 16 vying for Moolah Beach's $25,000 grand prize.

"I thought it would be fun to do something like this. I thought it would be fun to do something that nobody knows about," Johnson said Friday.

The upcoming sophomore at Winter Haven High School may have lucked out in ending up on the show. He just happened to be at Universal Studios on his way to Islands of Adventure May 19 when he noticed Fox Kids was auditioning for Moolah Beach. Johnson said he decided to try out, and completed the obstacle course: running up stairs, running about 30 feet, catching and throwing a ball.

He beat out about 5,000 other kids nationwide to land his spot as a contestant.

"It wasn't as simple as it sounded," he says now. "But by me being there at the time, I was able to audition, and they called me back."

According to Lesley Barricella, spokesperson for Fox Kids, the network held auditions in Texas, Florida, Illinois and New York for the new show.

"We wanted kids that were different," she said. "We didn't want kids that were super-athletic."

The chosen 12 includes three other Floridians besides Johnson: Nancy Diaz from Ocala, Brittany Harris of Cocoa Beach and Lake Mary's Drew Luna.

Rounding out the contestant list are Chasati Allen from Dolton, Ill.; Summer Borden of Rowlett, Texas; Sharie Lee of Bowie, Md.; Chloe Levenson from New York, N.Y.; Jacob Capito from Fort Wayne, Ind.; Clark Harrison of Schaumburg, Ill.; Kyle Searles of Frisco, Texas; and Xavier Yepez of Westchester, Ill.

The teens spent about 12 days on a remote tropical island, 10 days actually filming the show.

Moolah Beach appears to be Survivor for kids. Split up into six co-ed teams of two people each, the teens compete for 13 idols while a camera crew films everything they say and do. And like Survivor, teams are eliminated from the competition one by one.

Johnson -- like all the contestants -- signed a confidentiality agreement, and coyly dodged questions about how well he did in the game.

"I think my partner and I did great," he said. "Being out there (with 11 strangers) taught me to trust."

Johnson wasn't entirely alone. His parents, Maxine and Andrew Johnson, accompanied him to the island and toured the beach before filming.

His parents were very excited about his participation, he said, and his sisters were also thrilled that their brother would be on location for a few days.

"Majorly because I was getting out of the house," he joked. "But they were excited, because they know I like to have fun and hang out with the camera."

After his parents finished their tour, A.J. was left with his fellow contestants for the 10 days of filming, and quickly made friends.

"I was kind of heartbroken when we had to leave," he said.

Barricella agrees, and said many of the teens cried when filming was done.

"They became such good friends," she said. "They didn't want anyone to lose."

The WHHS honors student said the game was very mental, in that it made contestants think about the challenges. In the first competition, the teams must play the Makahiki Mission, which is described as a "game of mind, body and strategy derived from ancient Hawaiian culture."

It is during this challenge that the competing teams first get to choose idols, one of which could contain the $25,000. The champion gets to choose two idols, and also receives a clue that hints at which idol does not contain the grand prize.

The daily Kahuna Mission determines which teams are eliminated -- the order in which the team successfully completes the mission determines how many color-coded idols they receive. Those colored idols are placed in a statue called the Great Kahuna, and host JD Roth causes them to come out of the statue's mouth.

"As long as one of your idols comes out, you get to stay," Barricella said.

The exiled teams must give their idols and clues away to a remaining team of their choice. In the final episode airing Oct. 13, only two teams will remain to compete for the last four idols. The Search for the Lost Idols is a large-scale treasure hunt, with contestants scrambling over land and sea while using the clues to find the remaining four idols.

Once all 13 idols have been found, the two teams will have to face the Temptation of the Spirits, in which they are offered enticing prize packages for their idols. But the contestants would be risking idols that potentially hold the $25,000. And in the Spirits Speak, the host will open the idols to reveal which ones have the grand prize, and which team is the King and Queen of Moolah Beach.

Winter Haven won't find out if Johnson became king of the beach until Oct. 13, but even if he doesn't win he has memories of doing things he didn't want to do. He said the worst part about the experience was taking cold showers, because Moolah Beach had no electricity.

Check the News Chief's local listings for the time and channel.