Palworld has 9 Pal-types in the game and each one has its own abilities and advantages. If you are wondering which are the best Fire Pals you can catch, our handy guide has everything you need to know.

In Palworld, Fire is one of the nine element types you can find and all the Pals available in the game are categorized under these nine elements, some can even have two of them.

Due to their characteristics, Fire Pals can be very useful in every area of the game thanks to their strong attacks over Grass-type Pals, their special mounts for traveling, and mostly as base workers due to Work Suitabilities such as Kindling, useful for hatching Eggs.

With that said, here’s a list of the 11 best Fire Pals you can catch in the game.

Contents

11 best Fire Pals in Palworld

Leezpunk Ignis

Vanwyrm

Bushi

Suzaku

Reptyro

Kitsun

Faleris

Ragnahawk

Blazehowl Noct

Blazamut

Jormuntide Ignis

Where to find Fire Pals in Palworld

Fire Pals Eggs

All Fire Pals in Palworld

11 best Fire Pals in Palworld

11. Leezpunk Ignis

Element: Fire

Partner Skill: Sixth Sense

Work Suitability: Gathering Lv1 / Handiwork Lv1 / Kindling Lv1 / Transporting Lv1

Weaknesses: Water

Leezpunk Ignis features one of the best Work Suitability combos, featuring level 1 Gathering, Handiwork, Kindling, and Transporting, which makes it great for farming resources. When its Partner Skill is activated, it can detect nearby dungeons.

10. Vanwyrm

Element: Fire/Dark

Partner Skill: Aerial Marauder

Work Suitability: Kindling Lv1 / Transporting Lv3

Weaknesses: Water & Dragon

The flying Vanwyrm is one of the best Pals in general as it is a decent mount, a good fighter, and an even better base worker. As a mount, it has good speed and can keep the player from freezing while riding during the night or around cold areas. For fighting it has a good set of moves available for both Fire and Dark powers, and in base, it’s very useful for transporting as it is level 3.

9. Bushi

Element: Fire

Partner Skill: Brandish Blade

Work Suitability: Gathering Lv1 / Handiwork Lv1 / Kindling Lv2 / Lumbering Lv3 / Transporting Lv2

Weaknesses: Water

Bushi is one of those Fire Pals that can be a solid addition to your team. With a plethora of Work Suitabilities, it can do a ton of work for you to help in progression. Its Partner Skill, Brandish Blade, attacks the targeted enemy with a powerful Iaigiri when activated.

8. Suzaku

Element: Fire

Partner Skill: Wings of Flame

Work Suitability: Kindling Lv3

Weaknesses: Water

Suzaku is another ideal Fire Pal for its level 3 Kindling Work Suitability. It’s typically found around the northeastern part of the map and can be ridden as well. You can enhance its Fire Attacks once you mount this fiery creature.

7. Reptyro

Element: Fire/Ground

Partner Skill: Ore-loving Beast

Work Suitability: Kindling Lv3 / Mining Lv3

Weaknesses: Water & Grass

Reptyro might be a terrible mount, but it is one of the best fighters and base workers in Palworld. This powerful creature is great for mining resources as it has the ability at level 3. Plus, its Partner Skill “Ore-loving beast” improves your mining efficiency while you ride Reptyro, so you better put it to work.

6. Kitsun

Element: Fire

Partner Skill: Clear Mind

Work Suitability: Kindling Lv2

Weaknesses: Water

Kitsun is one of the rarest Fire Pals in the game and is found only in one particular location at night which is the mountain towards the Northeast of the map. Its element helps it remain unaffected by the cold or heat and the best thing is you can use it as a mount and ride it to travel to different locations.

5. Faleris

Element: Fire

Partner Skill: Scorching Predator

Work Suitability: Kindling Lv3 / Transporting Lv3

Weaknesses: Water

Faleris is a flying mount that can transport items to your base from different locations, making it a great Fire Pal in the game. It’s found in the northeastern corner of the map, and catching one could test your skills to the fullest.

4. Ragnahawk

Element: Fire

Partner Skill: Flame Wing

Work Suitability: Kindling Lv3 / Transporting Lv3

Weaknesses: Water

Ragnahawk‘s Kindling and Transporting levels alone make it one of the best Fire Pals in Palworld. These monsters are mostly found around the Volcanic areas along the southwestmost region of the Palworld map.

3. Blazehowl Noct

Element: Fire/Dark

Partner Skill: Darkflame Lion

Work Suitability: Kindling Lv3 / Lumbering Lv2

Weaknesses: Water & Dragon

Blazehowl Noct is the alternate version to the standard Blazehowl, which only has the Fire-type. This variation has more coverage for fights, even though is not the strongest Pal, and its Partner Skill can make neutral Pals drop more items when defeated. It is also considered one of the best mounts in the game.

2. Blazamut

Element: Fire

Partner Skill: Magma Kaiser

Work Suitability: Kindling Lv3 / Mining Lv4

Weaknesses: Water

Blazamut is a great Fire Pal in Palworld due to its level 4 Mining, making it really efficient when you’re going to mine ores in the game. It is a very powerful Pal to have on your team, though it is quite hard to catch, too.

1. Jormuntide Ignis

Element: Dragon/Fire

Partner Skill: Stormbringer Lava Dragon

Work Suitability: Kindling Lv4

Having a level 4 Kindling Work Suitability makes Jormuntide Ignis a great Fire Pal in Palworld. However, it’s not easy to catch and is found only in one place in the entire Palpagos Islands, the northwest Wildlife Sanctuary. You can ride this Pal which further enhances its Fire attacks while mounted.

Where to find Fire Pals in Palworld

Fire Pals can be found everywhere around the Palpagos Island. However, if you truly want to secure a Fire-type catch, you can travel to both the Dessicated Desert, where creatures like Suzaku can be seen, or Mount Obsidian, where strong powerhouses such as Blazamut and Reptyro await.

Other Fire types Pals like the mighty Jormuntide Ignis and Faleris can be found in the Wildlife Sanctuaries.

Fire Pals Eggs

Fire Pals can only be hatched from Scorching Eggs in Palworld. They can be regular, large, and huge, and that categorization will determine the pool of Pals that can be obtained from them.

Leezpunk Ignis and Vanwyrm can be obtained from regular ones, while Kitsun, Bushi, Ragnahawk, and Reptyro only hatch from large eggs. Stronger creatures such as Blazehowl Noct, Blazamut, Suzaku, and Faleris can be found in Huge Scorching Eggs.

However, as one of the most powerful beasts in the whole game, Jormuntide Ignis can only be hatched from Huge Dragon Eggs.

All Fire Pals in Palworld

You can find a full rundown of Fire Pals currently in Palworld in the table below:

Those are the best Fire Pals in Palworld. For more game content, check our other guides below: