Nashville, TN (March 1, 2024) - Rising country superstar and platinum-selling artist Trey Lewis has released his highly-anticipated new album Troublemaker, his first via River House Artists, available everywhere now. Troublemaker features 14 tracks and was produced by Jacob Rice. With his raw and honest delivery, this album is set to captivate fans with its heartfelt lyrics and infectious melodies, showcasing Lewis’ unique musical style and his range as an artist.

Additionally, an official music video for the title track debuts today. “Troublemaker” is an anthem of youth rebellion and self-discovery, with Lewis portraying the struggles of growing up without guidance. Through vivid imagery, the song captures the essence of defiance and resilience, making it a rallying cry for all the rule breakers and outlaw kids. The song is reminiscent of Trey’s childhood and tells his compelling story of growing up and yet not quite “fitting in.”

“I feel like everything I’ve been through in my life has built up to this moment. I feel like these songs really represent where I’ve been and what I’ve been through,” says Lewis. “I believe there is something on this album for every listener, whether this is their first time hearing me or they’ve been a fan for years. My hope is that people can relate to it and play it and then play it again and again and again.”

Lewis became a household name in 2020 with his viral hit, “Dicked Down in Dallas,” which hit Number One on iTunes and has garnered more than 360 million streams to date. The career-launching hit was followed by “Single Again,” which once again hit the top of the iTunes chart. A road warrior, Lewis’s live show highlights his ability to connect with his fans deeply and has earned him a reputation as a compelling artist to watch.

Troublemaker Track Listing:

Drunk In A Bar (Justin Wilson, Matt Rogers, Chris DeStefano)

Could’ve Been Me (Dawson Edwards, Alex Maxwell, Joe Collins)

Wishin’ I Was Fishin’ (Joybeth Taylor, Matt McKinney, Tate Howell, Jared Hampton)

Up Yours (Lee Thomas Miller, John Pierce, Ben Stennis)

Girl Problem (Seth Ennis, Joe Fox, Trea Landon)

Outlaw Us (David Lee Murphy, Rhett Akins, Michael Carter)

Sounds Like Money To Me (JT Harding, Brice Long, Matt McKinney)

Pretty Hungover (Tommy Karlas, Kyle Coulahan, Dais Corley)

Always You (Ben Hayslip, Matt McKinney, Jacob Rice)

Troublemaker (Trey Lewis, Kyle Coulahan, Davis Corley)

What I’m Doin’ (Trey Lewis, Jake Rose, Stone Aielli)

I’m A (Craig Wiseman, Chris Stevens, Brad Warren, Brett Warren)

Mine Never Could (Matt Jenkins, Zachary Kale, Deric Ruttan)

I Quit (Trey Lewis, Matt McVaney, Jordan Walker)

For updates on Trey Lewis’s new single, tour dates, and more, fans can follow him on social media and visit https://treylewismusic.com.