NEW YORK (CNNfn) - Quickturn Design Systems Inc., which has been fending off a hostile takeover bid by Mentor Graphics Corp., has agreed to be acquired by Cadence Design Systems Inc. in a $253 million stock transaction, the companies announced Wednesday.

The proposed white-knight transaction values Quickturn (QKTN), a developer of hardware that verifies integrated circuits and electronics systems, at $14 a share - a nearly 23% premium from Mentor's $12.125 a share offer that Quickturn rejected in August.

The deal's announcement came in advance of the Jan. 8, 1999 special Quickturn shareholder meeting called by Mentor (MENT), which said last Friday that it has been tendered proxies for 51% of Quickturn's shares. Combined with its own holdings, Mentor claimed to control about 54% of Quickturn stock.

Mentor's tender offer for Quickturn was scheduled to expire on Jan. 11, 1999.

A spokesman for Wilsonville, Ore.-based Mentor said the company is reviewing its options and would have no other response at this time.

Quickturn shares were up 1-5/8 to 13-13/16 in early Wednesday Nasdaq trading. Cadence was down 11/16 to 29-5/16 in New York Stock Exchange trading.

Mentor makes software that helps engineers design and evaluate the components of electronic systems. Its stock was down 1-1/32 to 8-31/32 in Nasdaq trading.

"A merger with Cadence is a superior outcome for our shareholders, our employees and our customers, and allows Quickturn to continue to pursue its business strategy" said Quickturn president and chief executive Keith R. Lobo.

"By integrating Quickturn's hardware-based emulation approach with our software design and simulation systems, we will dramatically improve our ability to meet customer demand for faster development of high-speed systems on a chip," said Jack Harding, president and chief executive of San Jose, Calif.-based Cadence (CDN), which makes semiconductor and computer system design software.

In a statement, Cadence said the merger would be accounted for as a pooling of interests, and that it expected the transaction to benefit earnings in 1999. Quickturn would become a wholly owned subsidiary of Cadence.

As part of the transaction, Quickturn has issued Cadence an option to buy 19.9% of its common stock at $14 a share.

The merger is subject to regulatory approval and a positive vote by Quickturn's shareholders. The companies said they expect the transaction to close in the first quarter of 1999.