Mariel Hemingway starred as Woody Allen's 17-year-old love interest in the 1979 film.

The film has become increasingly controversial due to the underage relationship portrayed.

Hemingway said the film "100%" could not be released today.

Mariel Hemingway earned a best supporting actress Oscar nomination for her performance in Woody Allen's 1979 black-and-white film "Manhattan," but during a recent interview, she said she doesn't believe the rom-com could be released today due to the underage romance portrayed in the film.

In the movie, Hemingway plays Tracy, a 17-year-old high schooler who starts a romantic relationship with a divorced 42-year-old television comedy writer played by the film's co-writer and director, Woody Allen. The film had long been considered one of Allen's best, but over the last decade, it has become tainted after allegations of sexual abuse were made against Allen by his former adoptive daughter, Dylan Farrow.

Speaking with the "Better Together with Anne & Heather" podcast, Hemingway said: "I'm not condoning any behavior. That movie probably couldn't come out today. 100 percent."

Hemingway, who is the granddaughter of writer Ernest Hemingway, continued to say that she has not seen HBO's four-episode docuseries "Allen v. Farrow," which aired earlier this year and investigates the events that led up to Dylan Farrow, then aged seven, accusing Allen of sexually abusing her in 1992. Allen has repeatedly denied the allegations.

The documentary also re-examines the making and content of several Woody Allen films including "Manhattan" within the context of Dylan Farrow's allegations. Hemingway said: "It's a bit touchy for me because he wasn't disrespectful of me or unpleasant. I don't know Mia, I don't know Ronan and I don't know Dylan. I don't know that story. It's not my story to tell."

Hemingway continued: "Me saying that is not me going on a bandstand defending [Woody Allen], but the integrity of his work to me still stays intact.

"I'm not going down that road with him. Maybe that's cowardly of me."

In 2018, actress Babi Christina Engelhardt told The Hollywood Reporter that she had a secret relationship with Allen aged 17, which she claims inspired the making of "Manhattan." Engelhardt told the publication that she first met Allen at a Manhattan restaurant when she passed him a note with her number. He invited her to his apartment on Manhattan's Upper East Side, she said, and the two began a "physically intimate" relationship.

She said that Allen was aware of her age and the two continued seeing each other in secret on more than 100 occasions.

"['Manhattan'] reminded me why I thought he was so interesting - his wit is magnetic," Engelhardt said. "It was why I liked him and why I'm still impressed with him as an artist. How he played with characters in his movies, and how he played with me."