Manhattan has been scene of so many films, series and the theme in countless songs and poetries. One of the most famous films is Manhattan by Woody Allen. Definitely a must-see!

One of the most famous pictures in the history of New York, is the one you see above.

In short, it’s a “picture taken in 1979 during the shooting of the movie ‘Manhattan‘ showing American director and actor Woody Allen with the American actress Diane Keaton in front of Queensborough Bridge, in New York.”

We shot a YouTube video of the Most Iconic And Instagrammable Movie Locations in NYC, and we show you how to get to this spot!

Below is a more detailed description:

“Manhattan is a 1979 American romantic comedy-drama film directed by Woody Allen from his screenplay co-written with Marshall Brickman and produced by Charles H. Joffe.

Allen co-stars as a twice-divorced 42-year-old comedy writer dating a 17-year-old girl (Mariel Hemingway) before eventually falling in love with his best friend’s (Michael Murphy) mistress (Diane Keaton). Meryl Streep and Anne Byrne also star in the film.

Manhattan was filmed in black-and-white and 2.35:1 widescreen. The decision to shoot in black and white was to give New York City a “great look.”

The film also features music composed by George Gershwin, including Rhapsody in Blue, which inspired the idea behind the film. Allen described the film as a combination of his previous two films, Annie Hall and Interiors.

The film was met with widespread critical acclaim and was nominated for two Academy Awards: Best Supporting Actress for Hemingway and Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen for Allen and Brickman.”

~ Wikipedia

In addition, see below the official trailer of the movie:

If you enjoy these super iconic movies that have revolutionized the film industry and even an entire generation, you will love the TriBeCa Film Festival. So, stay tuned to see the line up for the upcoming year!

And last, you might also love these outdoor movie screening that happen during the summer in New York! One of them is called Summer Screen!

Have fun!