Ann M. Fagan is a dedicated automobile hobbyist with over a half century of experience in collection acquisition and management. Ann's early addiction to automobiles started in her childhood neighborhood when she would ask her parents "what was that?" -as a Citroen or a Mercedes SL sped past. Neither parent could answer, and this ultimately led to her learning about many makes and models by washing the most interesting cars within her neighborhood. The highlight of this childhood passion was the discovery of both a 1954 Rolls Royce Silver Dawn and a 1959 Mercedes-Benz Adenauer 300d. Ann’s first automotive acquisitions in high school included a Chevrolet Malibu and Nova Chevy II. Those two cherished vehicles were traded up in college for a Datsun 280Z and shortly thereafter for a Mercedes-Benz 380SL. The addiction was clearly ignited early!

Today, Ann’s automobile club affiliations include the Antique Automobile Club of America (AACA), BMW Car Club of America (BMWCCA), BMW Classic Car Club of America (BMWCCCA), Datsun Z Club of America (CTZCC), Gull Wing Group International (GWG), Hagerty Drivers Club, Jaguar Clubs of North America, Inc. (JCNA), Mercedes Benz Club of America (MBCA), National Corvette Restorers Society (NCRS), Pogoda SL Group, Porsche Club of America (PCA), Vintage Sports Car Club of America (VSCCA),Volvo Sports America (VSA), and others. Prior memberships and ownership included Ferrari Club of America (FCA) and Metropolitan Owner's Club of North America (MOCNA). She is currently and has been a Silver Arrow Member of the Saratoga Automobile Museum for several years. Ann served two consecutive terms on the Board of Directors of the GWG and she is presently President of the East Coast Chapter of the organization. Ann enjoys participating in multiple rallies, concours events, and tours throughout the year. Notably, she has driven in every 300SL Classic rally since inception. Recently, Ann drove the New England 1000 in her 1973 BMW 3.0Cs. Although her collection has been as described as eclectic, Ann’s collection currently emphasizes German marques.

Dream Ride is Happening, In a new Modified Version

Dear Dream Ride Family,

For the past 20 years, The Dream Ride Experience has been the signature event of The Hometown Foundation, Inc., which represents communities and participants of Special Olympics from around the globe. With the ongoing health and safety concerns directly related to COVID-19, The Hometown Foundation, Inc. has modified this year's Dream Ride Experience to ensure those who can safely attend are able to do so under appropriate social distancing guidelines. For those unable to join us in person, we will be providing a virtual viewing and participation experience, so that Dream Riders around the globe can still join in on the fun. So mark your calendars and join us on Friday, August 21 - Sunday, August 23, 2020 in Farmington, CT as we celebrate our Dream Riders and their year-long achievements in a new format.

While we will have to wait until next year to celebrate the 20th Anniversary of The Dream Ride Experience in its traditional format, we are still prepared to showcase the bond and friendships we have been cultivating over the past twenty years with our Summer of Dreams! Join us every weekend at the Farmington Polo Club for Friday's Cinema Under the Stars and traditional Polo Matches every Saturday. Don't forget about the popular Chuckker Café where you can stop by and enjoy breakfast and lunch every Sunday.

We have a very special weekend scheduled for August 21-23, 2020. Whether you are local or across the globe, we have made it possible for you to join us either in person or virtually for the Dream Ride Experience. We are in the process of planning a modified weekend to not only ensure the health and safety of participants, but to allow for participation at whatever your comfort level may be. Although we are still working out the details, below is a sample of what to expect. Visit our website www.dreamride.org all summer for updates.

Schedule of Events

Friday, August 21st

Dream Ride: Cinema Under The Stars

Live Music

Saturday, August 22nd

Special Olympics Connecticut Unified Sports and Activities

Modified Vendor Village

Pet Adoption Center

Police K-9 Challenge

Volunteer Car Cruise

The Dream Ride World Cup Polo Match

Dinner & Cocktails Under The Stars

Sunday, August 23rd

The Dream Show: Car & Motorcycle Edition

Pet Adoption Center

Modified Vendor Village

Volunteer Motorcycle Rally

The Dream Ride Experience: Through The Years Virtual Celebration

For our Dream Riders living across the globe and to those who cannot make it to Farmington, CT for the weekend, we invite you to join us virtually. On Sunday, August 23, 2020 at 3:00pm EST we will premiere "The Dream Ride Experience: Through the Years Virtual Celebration". Join us online as we relive Dream Ride's most treasured moments and highlights, all created because of you! Your overwhelming support never goes unrecognized and we look forward to keeping the dream alive, virtually.

The Dream Ride Experience will officially celebrate its 20th Anniversary on Friday, August 20 - Sunday, August 22, 2021. We invite you to celebrate with us all summer long at the Farmington Polo Club and join us August 21-23, 2020 for a weekend celebration. If you would like to make a donation, please visit www.dreamride.org. If you are interested in sponsoring any of these events or have questions, please email info@hometownfoundation.org.

Thank you for your continued support, we truly appreciate it!

Sincerely,

The Hometown Foundation Team