Philippe Madec

Philippe Madec (born in France in 1954) is an architect, writer, urban planner and a pioneer in the field of sustainability.

Philippe Madec was trained in architecture at the Grand Palais in Paris (workshop Cirianihas /Maroti) from 1972 to 1979, and in 1989 he created his own studio Atelier Philippe Madec Paris.

He is involved in research into eighteenth century architectural drawing, the relationship between theory and pedagogy in architecture and in sustainability, etc.

Since 2010 he has been a professor at École Nationale Supérieure d’Architecture de Bretagne.

Philippe Madec has published books, articles and films about art, architecture, landscape, urban planning and the theory and pedagogy of architecture.

Philippe Madec is also a long-time teacher at Columbia University, ENS Paysage of Versailles, University of Montreal, Harvard University and universities in Paris, Grenoble, Rouen and Lyon.

Veronika Valk

Architect Veronika Valk studied at the Rhode Island School of Design (US) and graduated from the Estonian Academy of Arts (EE). And she completed her PhD at RMIT University, School of Architecture and Design, in Melbourne (AU).

Veronika Valk has constructed both public and private buildings, designed interiors and landscapes, won prizes in various architecture and planning competitions and published a number of critical essays on architecture and urbanism since 2004.

She runs her practice Zizi&Yoyo, directs research at the Faculty of Architecture and leads the PhD programme in architecture at the Estonian Academy of Arts. She has also been an editor of architecture, design and urbanism pages at Estonia’s main cultural newspapers Sirp and Müürileht.

Veronika Valk is concurrently an advisor on architecture and design at the Ministry of Culture of Estonia.

Kasper Heiberg Frandsen

Kasper Heiberg Frandsen (born 1971) graduated from The Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, Schools of Architecture, Design and Conservation in 1996, and has since had his own architecture office and worked as an architect with Buffi Associés, Paris and Erik Christian Sørensen / Zibrandtsens Architects.

In 2000, Kasper Heiberg Frandsen was employed at schmidt hammer lassen architects, where he, in 2006, became associate partner. Kasper is part of the office’s creative leadership.

Kasper Heiberg Frandsen has been responsible for business development within health care as a new sector of schmidt hammer lassen architects. Simultaneously he is design manager for the company’s national as well as international hospital projects. Kasper Heiberg Frandsen is deeply committed to the development of the company’s sustainability profile.

Kasper has been an examiner at graduation examinations at the Aarhus School of Architecture since 2007, and he is an experienced speaker at higher educations and conferences in Denmark and abroad.

Torben Nielsen

Architect MAA Torben Nielsen (DK) has taught and carried out research at the Aarhus School of Architecture since 1994, and has been Rector at Aarhus School of Architecture since 2010.

In this capacity he has carried out a restructuring of both research and teaching at the school, as well as strengthening the school’s international orientation through recruitment and cooperation with schools of architecture and universities located in such diverse locations as China, Mexico and Australia.

As an architect, Torben Nielsen has mainly worked with the relationship between architecture and light – and his work on this theme has been exhibited several times.