This sublime, organic mountain extra virgin olive oil is a blend of heirloom varieties known to exist only on the Belvís de las Navas estate, overlooking Gibraltar and the coasts of Africa. The 18-hectare estate sits among tall cliffs, steep slopes and narrow terraces of difficult access that have sheltered olive varieties, allowing them to survive unnoticed for decades in a unique microclimate in what is known as the tail of the Subbaetic system. This one-of-a kind blend includes wild olive strains (Acebuchina) contributing great aromatic complexity to this freshly squeezed olive juice. Aromas of freshly cut grass, ripe tomatoes, artichoke, a hint of almond are found with a spicy note in the end. The olives are collected early in the season and are crushed everyday of harvest at low temperature to preserve the organoleptic and physiochemical properties intact.

Olive Varietals:

Hojiblanca, Verdial Vélez Málaga, Zorzaleña, Manzanilla Aloreña, and wild olive strains known as Acebuchina

; Oleic Acidity:

0.19%

Belvís de Las Navas EVOO Sell Sheet

Flavor Profile

A complex oil bursting with aromas of freshly cut green grass, artichoke, tomatoes, a hint of almond and a spicy note on the tongue. There is an intermediate intensity of spice and bitter, which reflects a balanced and stable oil.

Certified: Certified Organic

Item No.SizePackWeightBN1000 (bottle only)500mL Bottle6/case7.3 lbBN2000 (gift package, available Q4)500mL Bottle6/case15 lb

Ingredients

100% extra virgin olive oil

We are Rogers Collection, a dedicated importer of extraordinary foods of distinctive quality, handmade by artisan producers committed to ethical and traditional production methods in Europe, the Middle East, South Africa, and the Maghreb. For over 28 years, we have traveled the world in search of authentic and artisanal ingredients of the highest quality. We sell through distributors to wholesale retail outlets, chefs, and e-commerce platforms across the U.S. who treat our products with the same high level of integrity we do.

View Catalog PDF

OFFICE

Monday - Friday, 9am to 5pm EST

81 Bridge Street, Suite 203, Yarmouth, ME 04096

phone +1 207.828.2000 fax +1 207.828.4000

contact@rogerscollection.us

WAREHOUSE - FOR TRADE ONLY (call for details)

Monday - Friday, 9am to 1pm and 2pm to 4pm EST

Rogers Collection

Lyndhurst, New Jersey 07071