Only now have I discovered this: The 1975 compilation "Golden Hour Presents Status Quo - Down The Dustpipe" (GH 604) features the original 1970 studio version of "In My Chair" in stereo, not electrically re-channelled as many other tracks. Now, I'm not an expert on all things Quo, but I haven't come across that very stereo version before - and I couldn't find it on the net as well. Does anybody know or have an idea if Pye Records (who are behind the sub-label Golden Hour) released it that way anywhere else?

What I did find is an alternate mix in stereo, but that's a different one. Also there's the alternate version - in mono. And recently someone put up a mono to stereo remix, but again that's a different kettle of fish. So I'm really curious if anyone can come up with some enlightenment on this matter . . .

Many thanks, Man! That's the strange prob indeed: the "Golden Hour" stuff infamously has poor dynamics and inferior sound quality - so if that mix hasn't been released anywhere else than on this comp, it's a cryin' shame. I still hope for a reply with further insight into this matter . . .

Maybe I'll try to transfer and upload it on my YT channel - if it actually gets through without any probs (you never can tell), I'll let you know here.

BTW - The "Golden Hour" compilation by Donovan briefly surfaced on CD in 1990 on a label called Knight Records (Castle Communications). Considering it being a somewhat early digital release, it certainly sounded way better than the GH vinyl. But I can't recall the Status Quo GH having received the same treatment.

The first Quo Golden Hour was issued on CD on Knight Records. I remember seeing that. Unfortunately the second one we're talking about wasn't.

That's exactly what I've just researched on Discogs. There's another Knight CD release under their compilation series "Night Riding" (1991) which is a mix of 14 tracks from both GH LPs - but I have no idea if the featured "In My Chair" is the stereo mix.

Nice one!

It's a good stereo mix and the upload sounds decent considering the source. Some great pictures of the young rockin' Quo I'd never seen before too. Something I noticed was that the foreign 45 of In My Chair shown at the beginning and end has 'stereo' on the label.

The Top of the Pops In My Chair was on YouTube in excellent quality a few years ago. It was repeated in Sweden (I think) and was from one of their Top of the Pops type shows. Black Sabbath - Paranoid and King Crimson - Cat Food (in black and white) also turned up like this. I have them all copied onto DVD-R somewhere.

Thanks, Man! Yes, I noticed the German 45 stating "stereo" - unfortunately I can't prove it, cause I don't have it. But let's keep in mind that this doesn't necessarily mean too much - I own quite a few singles that claim to be in stereo, but actually they're not. I'd sure like to know for sure, though. On the other hand - why should the German release be the only stereo one?!

Maybe you can upload your recording of the TOTP "In My Chair" footage somehow - the version available on YT really sucks in terms of quality.

I will do. It's far better than what's on at the moment. Finding it is the thing...

Wow!

I have a big collection of Quo on CD and tried to get all of Quo songs on each different takes and mixes on a digital format.

I have 5 different versions of In My Chair (not counting remastered versions. For that it's about 20 or more). And I wasn't even aware there was an early stereo mix (from the 70s)! Fascinating!

Neighbour Neighbour and Good Thinking also have stereo mixes form the late 70s. So now I'm wondering if there are lost original stereo mixes for Down The Dustpipe and Tune To The Music.

Thank you for sharing this!

I'd love a good stereo mix of Tune To The Music. I love that song.

Thanks for your reply, SoundCollector! Although I have that LP for ages, it was just recently that I discovered the uniqueness of this mix. Although I couldn't find it anywhere else, I also couldn't imagine that it wasn't released elsewhere - but at this point that actually seems to be the case . . . unbelievable and inexplicable!

I wonder if it was this version - https://www.discogs.com/release/5060763-Status-Quo-Dog-Of-Two-Head

That must have been the version I picked up when I got back into the album around 1999/2000 - it says it's an unreleased version though so not sure now if it's the same take as the single, but memory says it was a stereo mix with a complete ending instead of a fadeout. If it was a different take I don't remember it being too different from the single. Don't remember being massively impressed with the mix though.

There are several stereo takes of "Tune to the Music", but not one dated from the 70s.

There is a stereo remix from the 1998 reissue (already pointed by Ma Kelly). And then there are 2 alternative versions from The Singles Collection 1966 - 73. Also mixed in stereo (but I believe they were mixed for that compilation).

It's the same take as the original single version, but remixed in stereo for that 1998 release, if I'm not mistaken.