Neil Gaiman and Terry Pratchett’s brilliantly dark, screamingly funny take on the last judgment of humankind…

Adapted into a TV show by Amazon Prime, Good Omens is a collaboration from popular authors Neil Gaiman (known for the blockbuster Sandman comic book series as well as novels like American Gods, Coraline, and The Graveyard Book) and Terry Pratchett (best remembered for his 41-novel Discworld series).

According to The Nice and Accurate Prophecies of Agnes Nutter, Witch (the world’s only completely accurate book of prophecies, written in 1655, before she exploded), the world will end on a Saturday. Next Saturday, in fact. Just before dinner.

So the armies of Good and Evil are amassing, Atlantis is rising, frogs are falling, tempers are flaring. Everything appears to be going according to Divine Plan. Except a somewhat fussy angel and a fast-living demon—both of whom have lived amongst Earth’s mortals since The Beginning and have grown rather fond of the lifestyle—are not actually looking forward to the coming Rapture.

And someone seems to have misplaced the Antichrist...

During the video, Gaiman explained the origins of his working with Pratchett on Good Omens. Gaiman said, “We would have the kind of conversations where Terry would say, ‘I’m done with the Discworld, and now I’m gonna do this big science fiction series.’ I’d say, ‘That’s all very well, but I think you should do a book about death.’”

Then Gaiman had an idea for combining an English children’s books series with the plot of The Omen. He wrote the first five thousand words and sent it off to friends to get feedback. Then, about that time, he started writing the blockbuster comic book series Sandman.

“And one day, the phone rings,” Gaiman says, “and a voice on the other end says, ‘That thing you sent me, you’re doing anything with that?’ I said, ‘Well, no, I’m not. I’m writing Sandman and Books of Magic and all this other stuff.”

Pratchett asked Gaiman to either sell him the idea and that opening—or the two of them could write it together—because Pratchett wanted to find out what happens next.

“I said, ‘We are going to write it together,’ because I am not stupid,” Gaiman says. “It’s a lot like Michelangelo phoning you up and saying, ‘Do you want to paint a ceiling together?’ You go, ‘Here is somebody who really knows his craft.’ The opportunity to write a novel with [Pratchett] is the equivalent of the ultimate MFA. So I said yes.”

At that point, Gaiman was still writing Sandman and Books of Magic. About two o’clock in the morning, he’d get out of whatever document he was in, and go over to write Good Omens until about four or five o’clock in the morning. Then he’d sleep.

“We would talk plot on the phone each day for maybe an hour, an hour-and-a-half,” Gaiman says, “make each other laugh, come up with great gags, talk about what we were going to do next, and then it was a mad dash to get to the next good bit before the other one could.”

As Gaiman explains, the two authors divided the work, then reworked each other’s writing. “But as we got toward the end of the book, we started handing bits back,” he says. “By the end, we had each written every character. Then we’d go in and start footnoting each other’s bits or just adding gags to each other’s bits.”

You can watch the video for the whole conversation between Gaiman and Chabon.