James Donald “Don” Roberson, age 87 of Paris, TN, died Saturday, February 1, 2020, at Henry County Healthcare in Paris, TN.

He worked at Holley Carburetor for 36 years in quality control, then became the owner of Heart of Dixie Glass in Paris until his retirement. Don was a former officer with the Fish Fry Sam’s Camping Club and former leader of the men’s ministry at Fairview Baptist Church, where he was a member. He loved woodworking, camping, fishing, playing with his grandchildren, and reading his Bible.

Don was born October 11, 1932, in the Vandyke community of Paris, TN, to the late Herman Roberson and the late Daisy Rushing Roberson.

He was married April 27, 1972, to Betty Park Roberson, who survives, of Paris, TN.

Along with his wife, he is also survived by three daughters, Anita Andress of Shelbyville, TN, Alisa (Michael) French of Paris, TN, and Carol Nash of Dickson, TN; one son, Jimmy (Patty) Roberson of Paris, TN; two sisters, Janet (Rick) Martin of Paris, TN, and Marilyn (Glenn) Hopkins of Paris, TN; six grandchildren, Damon (Kalynn) Andress, Libbie French, Jay Roberson, Will Roberson, Amy Jones, and Jennifer (Mike) Patterson; eight great grandchildren, and one great great grandchild.

In addition to his parents, he was also preceded in death by three sisters, Ruby Clark, Marjorie Holcomb, and Rebecca Roberson; one brother, Elroy Roberson; and one grandson, Tanner Roberson.

Arrangements are being handled by Ridgeway Funeral Home, 201 Dunlap St., Paris, TN 38242. Visitation will be Tuesday, February 4, 2020, from 11:00 am – 1:00 pm at Ridgeway Funeral Home, with the funeral service beginning at 1:00 pm at LeDon Chapel of Ridgeway Funeral Home, with Dr. Johnathan Smith officiating.

Serving as pallbearers will be Lynn Scott, Randy Scott, Michael French, Mike Patterson, Ray Harris, and Mike Noss. Named as honorary pallbearers are Glenn Hopkins, Rick Martin, and Gene Baker.

Burial will be in Memorial Cemetery in Paris, TN.

Memorials may be made to: Gideons International – Henry County Camp, PO Box 583, Paris, TN 38242.