FAQs - Here some frequently asked questions we receive in our customer service from shirt lovers all around the world and our answers:

Question: What is the M size in number shirts?

Answer: M stands for medium and the corresponding number sizes European countries is 40 respectivly 41. These sizes both have a medium torso size and only differ in the collar width which is 40 cm respectivly 41 cm.

Question: What is medium shirt size in numbers?

Answer: The international medium (M) shirt size corresponds to the shirt sizes 40 and 41 which both have a medium sized torso and only differ in the width of the collar which is 40 cm or 41cm.

Question: What does shirt size 40 mean?

Answer: Shirt size 40 is the the medium shirt size in the European shirt size scale. 40 actually stands for the circumsize of the collor which is in this case 40cm. But it also means the torso of a size 40 shirt is medium sized.

Question: Is shirt size 40 medium or large?

Answer: A shirt with size 40 corresponds to shirt size medium in the international scale.

Question: What is a XXL size shirt in cm?

Answer: If you are looking for a XXL size shirt in European shirt scale than a shirt size 45 or 46 is best for you. Both have a XXL torso size and only differ in the width of the collar which is 45cm or 46cm.

What size is L for men's shirts?

The international size L designates the torso size "Large" for shirts. On the shirt size scale common in Germany, size L corresponds to collar size 41 or 42. The torso size (chest circumference, waist and shirt length) therefore does not differ for shirts with collar size 41 and 42, but the difference is merely the circumference of the collar. Some shirt sizes in Germany are also indicated in the ready-made sizes scale. For men's shirts, the ready-made size 54 or 56 (slightly wider cut) corresponds to size L.

What does shirt size 40 mean?

In many countries like Germany, France or Italy the size of a shirt is defined by the collar width respectivly by the circumference of the neck. Accordingly a shirt with size 40 means a shirt that has a collar width of 40 cm. As distinguished from the literal meaning the "collar width" sizing does not only tell you the width of the collar but also the torso size of the shirt. Thus, a shirt with a collar size of 40 corresponds to a shirt with a torso size of M in international sizing.

Which size is XL for men's shirts?

The international size XL refers to shirts with body size "Extra Large". On the shirt size scale common in Germany, size XL corresponds to collar size 43 or 44, which differ only slightly in the circumference of the collar. The torso (chest circumference, waist and shirt length) does not differ for collar size 43 and 44. If the ready-made size of the shirt is indicated, XL corresponds to the ready-made size 58 or 60 (slightly wider cut).

What is shirt size XS for men?

The international size XS refers to the body size "Extra Small" for shirts. It is the smallest size offered in the standard collections of the manufacturers. On the scale commonly used in Germany, XS corresponds to a collar size of 35 or 36 for shirts. Chest measurement, waist and length of the shirt are accordingly the same for shirts with collar sizes 35 and 36, the difference is only 1 cm in collar measurement. In Germany you can also find the scale of ready-made sizes, although it is becoming increasingly rare. The international shirt size XS corresponds to the German ready-made sizes 42 or 44.

Which shirt size is M for shirts?

The international size M designates shirts with body size "Medium". On the shirt size scale commonly used in Germany, M corresponds to collar size 39 or 40, i.e. shirts with collar sizes 39 and 40 have the same chest measurement, waist and torso length. They only differ in the circumference of the collar. If the shirt size is expressed in the German ready-made size, M corresponds to the ready-made size 50 or 52.

What size is S for men's shirts?

Shirts with the body size "Small" are internationally commonly referred to as size S. In Germany, shirts of this size are usually specified as collar size 37 or 38. The body of shirts with collar size 37 and 38 does not differ in chest or waist circumference. The only difference is the circumference of the collar opening. More rarely, shirt sizes in Germany are still indicated with the formerly common ready-made size scale, which is still used in the suit sector. For men's shirts, the ready-made sizes 46 or 48 (slightly wider cut) correspond to the international trunk size S.

Which shirt size is XXL for men?

The international shirt size XXL describes the body size "2 times Extra Large". The XXL size includes the collar size 45 and collar size 46, which are common sizes in Germany. Accordingly, the body (chest, waist and shirt length) does not differ for shirts with collar size 45 and 46. The only difference is the collar, which is 1 cm wider for the German collar size 46. If the shirt size is indicated in the men's sizes commonly used for suits, XXL corresponds to the size 62 or 64 (somewhat wider fit).

Which size is 3XL for men's shirts?

Shirts with the international size 3XL have the body size "3 times Extra Large". On the scale of collar sizes common in Germany for men's shirts, the international size 3XL corresponds to the collar sizes 47 and 48. The torso (chest measurement & waist measurement) of the collar sizes 47 and 48 is therefore the same and the two sizes differ only in 1cm collar size. Some manufacturers also indicate the men's ready-made size for shirts. Here the ready-made size 66 corresponds to the shirt size 3XL.