WAYNE BLACK could be putting up his feet and resting after winning all four Grand Slams.

Instead, he is helping others relax by running a luxury B&B with his wife in Zimbabwe.

Born in 1973 in what was then Salisbury, Rhodesia - now Harare, Zimbabwe - Black and his siblings Byron and Cara were drilled into being tennis players by their former pro dad Donald.

All three followed in their father’s footsteps - and the trio were each Grand Slam champions, with Cara the most successful on ten.

Wayne, though, enjoyed a fantastic 12-year career of his own from 1994, especially after focusing on doubles.

The diminutive 5ft 7ins star reached 69th in the singles rankings and his best performance at a major was the fourth round of the 1999 Australian Open.

But after turning his full attention to doubles, he racked up 18 career doubles titles - 14 of those with long-term partner and compatriot Kevin Ullyett - and reached world No4 in the rankings.

That includes winning both the US Open title in 2001 followed by the Australian Open men’s doubles crown in 2005 alongside Ullyett.

Wayne also teamed up with sister Cara for 2002 French Open and 2004 Wimbledon mixed doubles glory.

Black, 50, hung up his racket in 2006 - having made £2.6million on the court - and married former Kazakhstani tennis player and Cara’s ex-doubles partner Irina Selyutina.

CASINO SPECIAL - BEST CASINO WELCOME OFFERS

The couple settled in England following his retirement, with Black even playing club tennis in Sutton.

But they got fed up with the cold British weather and decided to return to Black’s homeland of Zimbabwe, where the former tennis duo set up their guest house which has a five-star rating on Trip Advisor.

Photos of Willow Lodge Harare show the stunning facilities on offer.

That includes fine dining for visitors, a beautiful swimming pool and even conference rooms available for those staying on business - plus the ability to arrange trips to Victoria Falls.

The website - which has stylish and modern rooms ranging from £122 to £260 per night - says: “Our property is the perfect marriage between secluded, nature-inspired living and access to the city and urban surrounds.

“When you are staying at Willow Lodge, you will feel as though you are staying in one of the cosiest boutique hotels in the area. This is because we strive to offer a ‘home-away-from-home’ atmosphere, with personalised attention.

“If it’s a warm welcome, memorable stay and luxurious convenience you’re after, Willow Lodge should be your first choice. Our ability to offer guests our unique brand of hospitality and individual care is what sets us apart.

“Our unique blend of luxury and affordability is something to look forward to, whether this is your first time in Africa or your hundredth!”