Ransom

MOVIE

Exciting Action-Thriller

Multi-millionaire Tom Mullen's son gets kidnapped, but when an FBI rescue operation goes awry, he turns the tables on the kidnappers by announcing on national television that the ransom money is now a bounty on their heads.

Duration: 1 hour 56 minutes 26 seconds1h 56m

Judy

MOVIE

Legendary performer Judy Garland arrives in London in the winter of 1968 to perform a series of sold-out concerts, in an attempt to reclaim her popularity and reputation.

Duration: 1 hour 52 minutes 23 seconds1h 52m

Snitch

MOVIE

Thrilling Crime Drama

A desperate father tries to save his teenage son from an unjust prison sentence by infiltrating a dangerous drug cartel.

Duration: 1 hour 45 minutes 1h 45m

The Lost City Of Z

MOVIE

Based on a True Story

The incredible true story of British explorer Percy Fawcett as he journeys into the Amazon at the dawn of the 20th century and discovers evidence of a previously unknown, advanced civilisation.

Duration: 2 hours 11 minutes 14 seconds2h 11m

Midnight Special

MOVIE

Compelling Sci-Fi

A father flees a religious cult to protect his young son and uncovers the truth behind the boy's special powers. Pursued by authorities, they travel across the country to fulfill a destiny that could change the world forever.

Duration: 1 hour 47 minutes 13 seconds1h 47m

Gravity

MOVIE

Academy Award Winner

Disaster strikes during a routine spacewalk. The shuttle is destroyed by debris, leaving Dr. Ryan Stone and Matt Kowalsky stranded in deep space, spiralling out into the blackness with no link to Earth and no hope of rescue.

Duration: 1 hour 27 minutes 11 seconds1h 27m

Clash Of The Titans

MOVIE

Edge-of-Your-Seat Action Mythology

Perseus, the son of Zeus, is helpless to save his family from Hades, vengeful god of the Underworld. Perseus leads a band of brave warriors on a dangerous quest to defeat Hades before the god can unleash hell on earth.

Duration: 1 hour 41 minutes 43 seconds1h 41m

A Perfect Murder

MOVIE

Gripping Crime Thriller

A wealthy woman becomes the target for murder when her husband, an investor with financial difficulties, discovers her affair with an artist and blackmails her lover into killing her.

Duration: 1 hour 42 minutes 59 seconds1h 42m

Girl, Interrupted

MOVIE

'90s Cinema Classic

It's 1967, and 17-year-old Susanna is wrongly institutionalised. Susanna joins a shadow world of eccentric young women. She must choose between those on the inside and the difficult world of reality on the outside.

Duration: 2 hours 2 minutes 8 seconds2h 2m

Focus

MOVIE

Femme Fatale Crime-Drama

A con man becomes romantically involved with a novice femme fatale, only to break up when she gets too close. Three years later, his former flame shows up where both of them are working separate, but equally elaborate cons.

Duration: 1 hour 40 minutes 22 seconds1h 40m

Beowulf

MOVIE

Fantasy Thriller

After destroying the crazed demon Grendel, Beowulf incurs the undying wrath of the beast's ruthlessly seductive mother, who will use any means possible to ensure revenge in an epic battle that will resonate through the ages.

Duration: 1 hour 49 minutes 27 seconds1h 49m