We look forward to welcoming all ticket holders to London Stadium for Burna Boy’s ‘Love, Damini’ Show on 3rd June. This special event marks the first ever African artist to headline a UK Stadium!

Here’s a few things you should note ahead of the show:

Arrive early to hear the hottest DJs and support acts from 4:30pm, with early bird offers on food and drink for the first hour once the gates open (4:30pm to 5:30pm)

There will be no sales box office on site. All tickets must be purchased in advance.

Please check and download your ticket before show day. There are no facilities on site to leave tickets for collection, please ensure you arrive with your full party.

If you are experiencing any issues accessing tickets, or have yet to receive them, please contact the ticket agent you purchased them from.

If you look under 25 and would like to purchase alcohol please remember you need Proof of Age ID with a PASS hologram, a photographic driving license or a passport. Remember enjoy alcohol responsibly. What is a PASS ID Card and how can I get one? (myidcard.co.uk)

You will not be permitted to cross any bridges on site without proof of a valid ticket. Access to the island is from 4.30pm onwards.

Full security checks will be conducted before entrance. Please have any coats open and remove hats at search areas.

To avoid delays, please don’t bring bags to the venue. Large bags are not permitted, and small bags will be subject to a search regime. There are no left luggage facilities.

Please note, this is a cashless venue. Please be prepared to pay with card or contactless.

Entry to island: 4:30 pm

Stadium doors open: 5pm

Show ends: 10pm

TRAVEL & TRANSPORT – IMPORTANT INFORMATION!

Please check train information before you leave home. There is currently a planned rail strike on 3 June 2023. This will NOT affect tubes, overground or DLR. Guests travelling by bus to London Stadium can do so by a variety of TFL services. For the latest travel advice visit www.nationalrail.co.uk or www.tfl.gov.uk.

There is no parking at London Stadium. For disabled customer parking please visit here. Any illegally parked cars may be ticketed and removed to a council car pound.

Please note, there will be no access to the Stadium island for non-ticket holders.

An Accessible Shuttle Bus will be in operation from Stratford Station to London Stadium (Bridge 3). The service will operate from 30mins before event opening times until 1hr post event. The bus will depart Stratford Station from Gibbins Road near to the dedicated accessible exit from Stratford Station on Platform 13.

After the event there are a number of walking routes to stations. The main station is Stratford Regional but there are also stations at Hackney Wick, Pudding Mill , Bow Road and West Ham. These are all with 5 to 25 minutes walk.

The walking route to Stratford Regional Station involves a Stop and Go sign and staff system to regulate customers into the Station. Please cooperate with staff as they manage your journey home.

There will be road closures in place all day in roads around the stadium.

There is a black cab taxi rank at Stratford Station. If you order an Uber or regulated mini cab they will have to pick you up outside the road closure system which closes Westfield Avenue, Montfichet Road and Marshgate Lane.

Please plan your journey ahead and hope you enjoy your time at the concert.

Enjoy the show!