01

of 15

Pray Away (2021): Most Heart-Wrenching Exposé on Conversion Therapy

IMDb Rating: 6.5/10

Genre: Documentary

Starring: Julie Rodgers, Randy Thomas, Yvette Cantu Schneider

Director: Kristine Stolakis

TV Rating: PG-13

Running Time: 1 hour, 41 minutes

Pray Away examines the controversial practice of gay conversion therapy, which religious activists openly championed in the U.S. until recently. Survivors and practitioners of conversion therapy give harrowing accounts of how genuinely good intentions led to decades of turmoil for countless families.

The film rightfully denounces the so-called "therapy" but doesn't condemn anyone. All subjects are approached with empathy and an emphasis on healing. Pray Away is not necessarily a fun watch, but it is necessary viewing for anyone interested in the topic.

02

of 15

Stand Out: An LGBTQ+ Celebration (2022)—Best LGBT Standup Comedy Special

IMDb Rating: 6.2/10

Genre: Comedy, Documentary

Starring: Margaret Cho, Wanda Sykes, Eddie Izzard

Director: Page Hurwitz, Linda Mendoza

TV Rating: TV-MA

Running Time: 1 hour, 36 minutes

In celebration of pride month, dozens of LGBT comedians came out to Los Angeles's Greek Theatre for a nonstop laughter marathon. Hosted by Billy Eichner, Stand Out features the comedy of Margaret Cho, Tig Notaro, Judy Gold, and many more.

You'll also see other notable LGBT+ celebrities like Sarah Paulson, Stephen Fry, and Ani Difranco.

03

of 15

Bruised (2020): Most Inspiring Redemption Story About Family and Cage Fighting

IMDb Rating: 6.2/10

Genre: Drama, Sport

Starring: Halle Berry, Adan Canto, Sheila Atim

Director: Halle Berry

Motion Picture Rating: R

Running Time: 2 hours, 9 minutes

Former cage fighter Jackie Justice (Halle Berry) longs for a triumphant return to the octagon. She might finally get her shot after impressing a promoter at an underground fight. However, life throws her a left hook when her estranged son Manny (Danny Boyd, Jr.) comes back into her life.

As its star and director, Halle Berry makes Bruised worth watching. Same-gender romance isn't the primary focus, but Bruised belongs on this list because it portrays a strong bisexual main character.

04

of 15

Fanfic (2023): An Unconventional Coming Out Story

IMDb Rating: 5.8/10

Genre: Drama

Starring: Alin Szewczyk, Jan Cieciara, Dobromir Dymecki

Director: Marta Karwowska

TV Rating: TV-MA

Running Time: 1 hour, 35 minutes

Tosia (Alin Szewczyk) doesn't feel comfortable in her own skin, so she draws herself how she wants to be: as a boy. When Tosia transitions to become Tosiek, his relationship with his gay best friend Leon (Jan Cieciara) takes on a new dimension.

Based on a young adult novel, this Polish Netflix original is available to watch in English, French, Spanish, and German.

05

of 15

Cobalt Blue (2022): A Love Triangle Turned into a Family Feud

IMDb Rating: 6.5/10

Genre: Drama, Romance

Starring: Neelay Mehendale, Prateik Babbar, Neil Bhoopalam

Director: Sachin Kundalkar

Motion Picture Rating: TV-MA

Running Time: 1 hour, 52 minutes

In mid-1990s India, siblings Tanay (Neelay Mehendale) and Anuja (Anjali Sivaraman) compete for the affection of a handsome houseguest (Prateik Babbar). Torn between the brother and sister, the suitor has no choice but to break someone's heart.

Based on a book by director Sachin Kundalkar, Cobalt Blue is an emotional period piece with a story that still resonates today while highlighting how much more accepting society has become in just the past few decades.

06

of 15

Nyad (2023): For Fans of Never Giving Up on a Lifelong Impossible Dream

IMDb Rating: 7.1/10

Genre: Biography, Drama, Sport

Starring: Jodie Foster, Annette Bening

Director: Jimmy Chin, Elizabeth Chai Vasarhelyi

Rating: PG-13

Running Time: 2 hours, 1 minute

This biography of swimmer Diana Nyad covers her remarkable journey to achieve her life-long dream of conquering the Mount Everest for swimmers: the 110 miles of open ocean from Cuba to Florida.

Others (including her) have tried without a shark cage but, for Diana, the goal is to make the swim without one. The four-year journey explores her relationship with her best friend and coach Bonnie Stool and a team of sailors dedicated to the cause. We won't tell you how it ends but it's worth the watch getting there.

07

of 15

Marry My Dead Body (2023): A Tale About Literally Being Haunted by Homophobia

IMDb Rating: 7.0/10

Genre: Action, Comedy, Drama,

Starring: Greg Han Hsu, Po-Hung Lin, Gingle Wang

Director: Wei-Hao Cheng

TV Rating: TV-MA

Running Time: 2 hours, 10 minutes

While investigating a crime scene, police officer Wu Ming-Han (Greg Han Hsu) becomes haunted by the ghost of the victim, Mao Pang-Yu (Po-Hung Lin). Can he overcome his homophobia and fear of ghosts to crack the case?

Marry My Dead Body combines comedy with Chinese superstition to create an original tale of tolerance and acceptance.

08

of 15

Operation Hyacinth (2021): Best Police Procedural About LGBT History in Poland

IMDb Rating: 6.8/10

Genre: Crime, Drama

Starring: Tomasz Ziętek, Hubert Milkowski, Marek Kalita

Director: Piotr Domalewski

TV Rating: TV-MA

Running Time: 1 hour, 52 minutes

During the final years of communist rule in Poland, a serial killer targets gay men in Warsaw. While the secret police try to sweep the murders under the rug, Officer Robert Mrozowski (Tomasz Ziętek) goes undercover to find the culprit.

The movie's title comes from the real-life campaign of violence and blackmail enacted by Polish police to terrorize the LGBT community in the 1980s. The murder plot is fictional, but the historical reality is even darker.

09

of 15

Stay on Board: The Leo Baker Story (2022)—A Tribute to a Trailblazing Transgender Athlete

IMDb Rating: 6.7/10

Genre: Documentary, Sports

Starring: Leo Baker, Melissa Bueno-Woerner, Alexis Sablone

Director: Nicola Marsh, Giovanni Reda

TV Rating: TV-MA

Running Time: 1 hour, 12 minutes

Stay on Board follows professional skateboarder Leo Baker as he prepares for the historic 2020 Olympics. On top of relentless training, Baker must endure the immense public scrutiny of being trans in the highly gendered world of competitive sports.

In addition to documenting history, Stay on Board serves as a history lesson about the rise of skateboarding from the shadows of punk culture to a serious international sport.

10

of 15

Eldorado: Everything the Nazis Hate (2023) - A Documentary About LGBT Persecution in WWII Germany

IMDb Rating: 7.5/10

Genre: Documentary, Drama, History

Starring: Eren Güvercin, Eli Otto Kappo, Antonio Lallo

Director: Benjamin Cantu, Matt Lambert

TV Rating: TV-MA

Running Time: 1 hour, 32 minutes

Before the Nazi party's rise to power in Germany, Berlin had a thriving LGBT community. As the fascists began persecuting (and eventually executing) LGBTQ+ Germans, a club called Eldorado became a safe haven.

This timely documentary features interviews with survivors of the Nazi era as well as historians who explain in detail how a once-progressive city became a prison for many of its citizens, and how a small minority resisted the system.

11

of 15

Dancing Queens (2021): A Gender-Bending Side Hussle

IMDb Rating: 5.7/10

Genre: Comedy, Drama

Starring: Molly Nutley, Fredrik Quiñones, Marie Göranzon

Director: Helena Bergström

TV Rating: TV-MA

Running Time: 1 hour, 50 minutes

Dylan (Molly Nutley) wants to dance professionally, but the best gig she can get is cleaning tables at a local drag bar. Fortunately for her, the struggling club needs new queens. The only problem is that she's a girl, which is something she'll have to hide from the patrons and her fellow performers.

Dancing Queens is a clever story about subverting gender norms. Some viewers take issue with a straight woman playing a drag queen, but that's the movie's point: Gender is performance.

12

of 15

The Invisible Thread (2022): A Tale of Two Fathers

IMDb Rating: 6.8/10

Genre: Comedy, Drama, Family

Starring: Marco Simon Puccioni, Luca De Bei, Gianluca Bernardini

Director: Marco Simon Puccioni

TV Rating: TV-MA

Running Time: 1 hour, 49 minutes

What's it like having two dads? In The Invisible Thread, a teenage boy decides to make a movie about life with his fathers and uncovers some surprising family secrets along the way.

The Invisible Thread (Il Filo Invisibile) is an Italian drama with a positive message and a few laughs. You can watch it in English on Netflix.

13

of 15

Dance of the 41 (2020): For Fans of History and Fancy Dresses

IMDb Rating: 6.8/10

Genre: Biography, Drama, History

Starring: Alfonso Herrera, Emiliano Zurita, Mabel Cadena

Director: David Pablos

Motion Picture Rating: TV-MA

Running Time: 1 hour, 39 minutes

Decades before Stonewall, police in Mexico City raid a private gathering of gay men to terrorize the local gay community. Unexpectedly, law enforcement is forced to sweep the incident under the rug when one of the party-goers is revealed to be Ignacio de la Torre y Mier (Alfonso Herrera), the handsome son-in-law of President Porfirio Díaz.

Inspired by true events, Dance of the 41 is a powerful period piece with a timeless story about persecution and perseverance. If you are interested in early 20th-century history or are fascinated with fancy ball gowns, check this one out.

14

of 15

Rustin (2023): A Tribute to the Real-Life Heroism of a Civil Rights Activist

IMDb Rating: 6.5/10

Genre: Biography, Drama, History

Starring: Colman Domingo, Chris Rock, Glynn Turman

Director: George C. Wolfe

TV Rating: PG-13

Running Time: 1 hour, 46 minutes

This biographical drama tells the story of Bayard Rustin, a civil and gay rights activist and pivotal organizer of the March on Washingtons for Jobs and Freedom in 1963 alongside Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who delivered his famous "I Have a Dream" speech at the event.

The film follows Rustin in his quest to organize the march, highlighting his unflappable determination to be himself and push through the homophobia and racism that threatens to block his path.

Rustin's portrayer Colman Domingo received critical praise for his performance, including an Oscar nod, in this project backed by Higher Ground Productions, the production company founded by Michelle and Barack Obama.

15

of 15

Valley of a Thousand Hills (2023): An Untraditional Coming Out Story

IMDb Rating: 6.6/10

Genre: Drama

Starring: Sibongokuhle Nkosi, Mandisa Vilakazi

Director: Bonie Sithebe

TV Rating: TV-MA

Running Time: 1 hour, 38 minutes

Nosipho (Sibongokuhle Nkosi) is betrothed to a man her traditional Zulu parents choose, but she only has eyes for someone else. Should Nosipho live a lie to please her family, or should she tell the truth and declare her forbidden love for another Zulu woman?

The Valley of a Thousand Hills takes its name from the region in South Africa where the movie was filmed and takes place.