A study shows that having a creative profession is 70% hereditary. And we’d probably be surprised to discover that so many current celebrities are the descendants of established actors or models. Even though science tells us that these stars have talent in their genes and we agree with it, we also believe that family connections are a very powerful tool.

Bright Side is fascinated by those dynasties that have been surviving and prospering in Hollywood for generations. We’ll share 7 parents with you who passed the torch of fame to their children and grandchildren.

1. Jon Voight, Angelina Jolie, James Haven, and Shiloh Jolie-Pitt

As one of the most influential Hollywood stars of the 21st century, Angelina Jolie has over the years earned numerous awards and acclaim as an actress as well as a director. Her father, Jon Voight, is also an established actor who rose to fame in the late ’60s and earned many awards and nominations throughout his career.

Angelina’s older brother, James, is also an actor and producer, who had his first role in 1998. Today at the age of 15, Angelina’s daughter Shiloh with her ex Brad Pitt is all grown up. This teenager had all eyes on her during several recent red carpet appearances where she has accompanied her mom.

2. Betty Lou Bredemus, Julia Roberts, Eric Roberts, and Emma Roberts

As one of the most acclaimed and one of the highest-paid actresses in Hollywood, Julia Roberts has no doubt succeeded in making a name for herself as a professional actress. However, her mom, Betty Lou was also a former theater actress and acting coach who once ran an acting school in Georgia.

Her son, Julia’s older brother, is also an actor with a career spanning over 40 years and over 500 roles. His daughter, Emma, is also under the limelight and made her acting debut in 2001 at 9-years-old.

3. Michael Redgrave, Vanessa Redgrave, and Joely Richardson

Starting with theater, and then expanding to film and TV, this British family has been acting since the 19th century. Michael Redgrave was known for his intellectual performances and interpretation of introverted characters. His daughter, Vanessa, might be the most recognized member of this dynasty, having been nominated and winning numerous awards, including an Oscar.

Vanessa’s daughter Joely is also a talented actress and a 2-time Golden Globe nominee. Her older sister Natasha, who was also an actress, passed away in a skiing accident in 2009.

4. Bruce Dern, Laura Dern, and Ellery Harper

Bruce had been a student of The Actors Studio. His acting career started at the beginning of the ’60s and is still going strong to this day. His daughter Laura is an equally established actress with roles in many big films including Jurassic Park.

Laura’s first movie appearance was at the age of 7, in a movie featuring her mom who is also an actress. Laura has 2 kids of her own, including a son named Ellery. The 20-year-old is a model who walked his first runway show back in 2018.

5. Roxie Roker, Lenny Kravitz, and Zoë Kravitz

The actress was best known for her role in a ’70s sitcom where she portrayed half of the very first interracial couple on TV. Her only son is multi-award winning rock star and actor Lenny Kravitz who has had a very close relationship with his mother.

Lenny’s only daughter is singer, actress, and model Zoë. She made her acting debut in 2007, and today, the 33-year-old rising star has acted in numerous films and series, as well as become the face of a popular beauty brand.

6. Henry Fonda, Jane Fonda, Peter Fonda, and Bridget Fonda

Henry was a well-respected American film and Broadway actor whose career lasted more than 5 decades. His daughter Jane followed in her father’s footsteps and built a respectful career including many award-winning and acclaimed roles in movies and TV. She was also a model and is a notable public figure known for her political and environmentalist activism.

Jane’s late brother Peter was also an actor and director who received accolades for many of his works. His daughter Bridget made her movie appearance at the age of 5 alongside her dad. She studied acting and appeared in numerous acclaimed movies before retiring from the acting scene in 2002.

7. John Barrymore, John Drew Barrymore, and Drew Barrymore

Drew has been under the spotlight before she can even remember. Her first appearance was in an advertisement at just 11-months-old. After that, she became one of the most notable child actors and a popular public figure before becoming a multi-award-winning actress. Her father was also an actor who had his first role at the age of 18.

His father, John, was a reputable and acclaimed stage and screen performer who had appeared in more than 40 plays, 60 films, and 100 radio shows. Besides these 3 members, the Barrymore family is one of the biggest acting dynasties whose genealogy includes actors and actresses who have been performing on stage for centuries.

Were you surprised to find out that some of these stars are related? Do you think that having a famous parent might make the journey to fame harder in some cases?