June 19, 2024

The focus of this book is primarily on how Pythagoreanism influenced thinkers from ancient times up through Kepler in the 17th century. My main take away is that Pythagoras and Pythagoreanism really become a catch-all symbol of a sage-like, mystical philosophical/mathematical musings. It's not even really clear to me that the ideas later referred to as something called Pythagoreanism is all that connected to the historical Pythagoras--of whom we seem to know very little. Pythagoras seems to become a kind of omniscient sage symbol rather than a philosopher of distinct ideas and arguments.

Kahn argues for some influence on Plato and his Academy and through this and Neoplatonism gets picked up by others in later antiquity and in the Renaissance. The content of this influence on Plato is somewhat opaque, and seems centered on two main ideas: the cosmological role of numbers and geometry and the transmigration of souls. But it's also not entirely clear where these ideas really come from and how they find their way (and the extent that they really do) into Plato (though I think they are there in Academic Platonism and later Neoplatonism -- I'm less sure about Plato himself).

The book doesn't really get into the ideas themselves as such, it's more focus on tracing the lines of influence from thinker to thinker. It won't really be of interest to someone looking for a precis of Pythagoras or his ideas. I found it enlightening at times but not really what I was looking for.

June 17, 2024

An unintentional lipogram that seeks to write about those who write about the ideas of Pythagoras but without writing about the ideas of Pythagoras.

Notes

2 tenets: 1, harmonia, the proportions found in numbers and music and celestial objects all betray the mathematical symmetry of creation, the music of the spheres. 2 - the immortality of the soul, either through transmigration of souls in rebirth, or through breaking the and liberation from rebirth

Pythagorean members rare homokooi (those who come together to listen), in the assembly hall, homakoeion, to hear an akousma (hearing) or a symbolon (password), protected by a vow of silence. INitiates have a 5yr trial period where they cannot speak, listening to the voice of Pythagoras (‘koina ta philon’ meaning friends have all things in common). Passing this test, they become esoterics, members of the inner circle and can see the master in person.

Tetractys triangle, of 4, 3, 2, 1 = 10, Monad unity, Dyad peiras/apeiron (limited/unlimited), Triad of harmony, Tetrad of Kosmos = Decad

Nous intellect does not coincide with the voice of the gods phrenes, so the setting of the logismos and the surrounding darkness is associated with ekstasis, the divine madness

September 19, 2017

I assumed from the title that this would be a book about Pythagoras and his immediate circle, but that was basically covered only in the first two chapters; most of the book is about the Pythagorean and neo-Pythagorean tradition after the time of Pythagoras, through Philolaus and Archytas, the Pythagorean influence on Plato and the Old Academy, the Roman/Alexandrian revival of Pythagoreanism after centuries of neglect, the neo-Pythagoreans and their influence on neo-Platonism, and the revival of Pythagorean ideas in the Renaissance -- the book ends with Kepler. It's very much a summary; the last comprehensive account of Pythagoreanism, as the author points out, was Chaignet's two volume French history published in 1873, although he bases this book largely on the twentieth century works of E.R. Dodds, Walter Burkert, Carl Huffman and Leonid Zhmud. Burkert and Huffman read the work before publication, although Kahn occasionally disagrees with their interpretations. Philosophy is emphasized; there was less about the mathematical and musical traditions than I was hoping for, but also less emphasis on the occult practices than I expected.

June 18, 2023

Brief but extremely dense academic look at the Philosophy of Pythagoras. If you're looking for a collection of the myths and stories surrounding the figure of Pythagoras, this is probably not the book you're looking for. Kahn focuses on the philosophy of Pythagoras and discusses what might have come from Pythagoras himself, and which ideas seem to originate with later writers in the Pythagorean tradition.

I didn't buy this book expecting to read so much about Plato and Neoplatonism. I hadn't realized the connections between Plato and Pythagoras. By the time I finished this book, even if it wasn't what I was looking to get out of it, I have a much better understanding of Plato's work and how Platonic philosophy evolved.

September 5, 2023

Focuses too much on what other modern academics have said and their speculations, not what I am looking for.

Next step in the right direction would be :

Chaignet's Pythagore et la philosophie pythagoricienne (1873)

Iamblichus and Porphyry's Pythagoras' biographies.

Proclus

Hierocles

Fabre d’Olivet - Examens des Vers Dorés de Pythagore

October 11, 2023

An excellent scholarly overview of the Pythagorean and Neo-Pythagorean tradition. This is the text that I have been searching for. Extremely grateful to the author of this landmark work.

December 21, 2023

Amazing scholarly work on Pythagoreanism. Really helps put platonism and Neoplatonism into perspective. I wish I had read this sooner.

Read

June 13, 2020

The shaman Pythagoras lives on! Intriguing continuum from the 5th century B.C. to the current neo-Pythagorean movement.

August 3, 2022

Perhaps would be better titled "The Pythagoreans and Pythagoras." The man himself is obscured, not to the author's discredit, by too many millennia for us to know much about him. Most of what we learn is how much has likely been fabricated about the man himself, including his unlikely authorship of the geometric theorem that famously bears his name.

Rather, this is a history of the succeeding generations who have claimed some part of his legacy. Whether it's the lifestyle, the theology, the music, or the math, people latch onto different elements of the Pythagorean tradition and make it their own. The text is primarily a history of thought, rather than a history of lived communities. The author traces philosophers who claimed the tradition, to one degree or another, and how they changed it, conflated it, or discouraged it. He goes into some detail about its inseparable conflation with Platonic philosophy in the generations after Aristotle.

I did find it frustrating that it's mostly focused on ancient sources. When projected into the modern day, his focus is mostly the tradition's scientific progeny. It doesn't pursue the communities who still trace their ideas to this community, notably the Druze, and, for the author, the legacy ends with Tycho Brahe. I think it could've been pushed further, but perhaps that's a whole separate book. This is squarely focused on ancient thought and adherence, a history of ideas and individuals, not communities or modern ramifications.

April 8, 2009

This reads like a doctoral thesis. It does little to discuss the theories and philosophy of the Pythagorian way... Rather it seeks to debate which ideas historically attributed to the famed thinker are legitamately Pythagorian, and which have simply fallen under that banner

Currently reading

August 15, 2010

Good and objective. Tells about the mysticism surrounding him, but separates it from the facts.