AFTER WATCHING the MCAL title slip away late in last year’s tournament to San Rafael, the Branson School boys golf team couldn’t wait to get back on the links for another crack at it. If the Bulls are to win their first title since 2006, it’s not likely that the Bulldogs will be the spoiler again. San Rafael’s coach, Mike Miller, has moved over to Marin Catholic to coach the boys and girls teams, while San Rafael just recently reached the minimum of five players to field a team.

Branson brings back four of its top players and appears to be the “team to beat” according to other league coaches.

“The team to beat is Branson,” Miller said. “They’ve got the top returning team from last year. They were pretty strong last year.”

With four players graduated, MC will have quite a challenge on its hands if it wants to extend its regular-season title streak. The Wildcats won their fifth in a row in 2010 and also have two tournament crowns in that span. Justin-Siena and Tam, who finished fourth and fifth respectively in last year’s tournament, could also be in the hunt with their deep squads and some of the top players returning.

Outside of the MCAL, Marin Academy has most of its squad back as it tries to defend the Bay Counties League West title.

BRANSON

Coach: Al Endriss (ninth season)

Last year: 12-6, third in MCAL

Outlook: The Bulls are poised to end their four-year MCAL golf championship drought with the return of their nucleus. Seniors Greg Mroz (all-MCAL first team) and Kubby Tischler along with Buddy Wartell (first team) and Carl Sennett were all-leaguers in 2010 and still smarting from last May’s runner-up finish in the MCAL tournament. Branson appeared to have the title wrapped up, before San Rafael gained control late in the round to stun the Bulls. Tao Zheng and freshman Jack Travers are expected to be keys in the Nos. 5 and 6 slots.

Last word: “Our top four guys are as good as anybody (in league),” Endriss said. “We’re young with a little experience. We’ll get better as the season goes on. As the younger guys in the lower positions get better, we’ll be as good as anybody.”

DRAKE

Coach: John Martin (fifth season)

Last year: 3-15, ninth in MCAL

Outlook: Martin is hoping his two returning seniors — Kyle Kelly and Jack Anderson — along with a pair of solid ball-striking freshmen — Aaron Bursten and J.P. Zamanillo — can help turn around a program that has been near the bottom of the standings for a while. Jackson Innendorf also returns as a junior.

Last word: “I’m encouraged. “… I see Drake doing more this year,” Martin said. “The guys are taking it seriously. They’re improving the way I expected them to. We might even end up over .500 this year.”

JUSTIN-SIENA

Coach: Ray Graziani (third season)

Last year: 11-7, tied for fourth in MCAL

Outlook: Jack Wilson, Thomas McLendon and Nikko Steen return as the top players for a Justin team that usually hovers around the top of the MCAL standings at the end of the regular season. The Braves won the league tournament in 2007 and are eager to do it again in 2011.

Last word: “This team has one goal in mind: to win MCAL,” Graziani said. “The league is always tight and you can plan on some really good golf being played. So we know we will need to bring our ‘A’ game to each match.”

MARIN CATHOLIC

Coach: Mike Miller (first season)

Last year: 17-1, first in MCAL

Outlook: The Wildcats are hoping the former San Rafael coach can help add to their postseason accolades. Back in May, Miller’s Bulldogs became the first Marin team in nearly a decade not from Branson or MC to hoist the championship banner. Miller, who will coach the girls team as well in the fall, takes over for longtime coach Tim Navone. Stefan Wolf anchors the squad as the lone returning senior for MC, which lost four players from its regular-season title team from last year. A.J. Martinez, Kevin Fitzpatrick, Sean Berardi and Ryan Levy are also in the mix.

Last word: “The goal is to win the MCAL title,” Miller said. “It’s a rebuilding year, but we have the talent to do it.”

NOVATO

Coach: Mike Chole (first season)

Last year: 8-10, seventh in MCAL

Outlook: Matt Briggs was not only the top freshman last year, but one of the top players in league. He returns as a sophomore vying for golfer of the year and anchoring his Hornets in the hopes of boosting their win total. Chole, the Novato athletic director, takes over the helm in his first year as a boys coach. He’s had past experience coaching on the girls side. Chole is expecting big things from his other returners: Andy Fronczak, Luke Weidner and Adaar Rosha.

Last word: “We have a good mix of talent and experience,” Chole said. “There’s a good chance we could contend for playoffs and the league title.”

REDWOOD

Coach: George Lim (second season)

Last year: 10-8, sixth in MCAL

Outlook: With eight guys on the squad, the Giants have a mix of youth and experience. Led by Spencer Ireland’s three years of varsity experience, the Giants will look to him as their No. 1 player as well as Billy Corbett and twin brothers Dan and Michael Salem to fill out the top four spots in the lineup. Lim is hoping that his four younger players will be able to pick up the slack as the season wears on.

Last word: “This is the hardest working team I’ve had,” Lim said. “Hopefully we can ease in our newcomers and surprise some teams.”

SAN RAFAEL

Coach: Dave Shapiro (first season)

Last year: 15-3, second in MCAL

Outlook: The Bulldogs were the first league team outside of Branson, Justin-Siena and Marin Catholic to claim the tournament title since Redwood won it in 2002. San Rafael’s season was in jeopardy until recently. San Rafael has just five golfers — Brooks Besson, Mora Ouneklap, Amir Azam, Jonathan Kaufman and Danny Waite — leaving no room for error. Besson is the top player.

Last word: “I feel great about it, that we have a team.” Shapiro said. “Brooks is a solid player. He played last year. He will definitely be our No. 1 this year.”

SAN MARIN

Coach: Bob Lacy (eighth season)

Last year: 4-14, eighth in MCAL

Outlook: The Mustangs will look to Alex Triantafyllos as their top golfer once the basketball season concludes. Triantafyllos has been a starter all four years and fellow senior Dan Cheetham also returns. Brad Walchli and Robbie Hogan are expected to be key newcomers.

Last word: “This year’s going to be better,” Lacy said. “We have a really good mix of returning players and promising young golfers.”

TAM

Coach: Mark Campagna (fourth season)

Last year: 11-7, tied for fourth in MCAL

Outlook: Tam has three seniors on its 12-man roster, including senior captain Ari Reiger, who moves up one spot from last year to No. 1 as the Red-tailed Hawks look to improve on their fifth-place finish in last year’s MCAL tournament. Tucker Nichols and Chris Byrne will likely assume the second and third slots, though neither spot is locked up. Galileo transfer Sean Lee and freshman Tiberio Visona will also be in the mix for the final two slots.

Last word: “Our team is fairly solid this year,” Campagna said. “I think we’ll finish higher than last year. It’s tough to get in the 1-2 spots (in league). With some luck and determination, the kids just might able to do it.”

TERRA LINDA

Coach: Joe Buel (sixth season)

Last year: 0-18, last in MCAL

Outlook: The Trojans are looking to break through in league after suffering back-to-back 0-18 campaigns. TL will look to a pair of senior basketball players to help end its skid. David Vyas, who is still recuperating from a broken hand, will assume the duties as the top golfer in the lineup. Mike Best, who at 6-foot-9 may be the tallest MCAL golfer of all time, joins the team now that hoops season is done. Brenton Shea, Austin Koblick and Harrison Garovi have experience, while seniors Mike Castro and Trevon Henderson are newcomers to the sport.

Last word: “TL’s always the doormat,” Buel said. “If any of our guys score well to win a match that would be our goal.”

MARIN ACADEMY

Coach: Jim Reed (fifth season)

Last year: 7-2, first in Bay Counties League West

Outlook: Marin Academy has most of its team back in its defense of the BCL West title with Alex Hartzell and Sam Grenietz likely battling for the No. 1 spot. Bobby Lehmann, freshman Joe LaHorgue and Adam Brune will probably be fighting for the remaining three spots.

Last word: “We’re looking pretty strong this year,” Reed said. “Our first four or five position players are pretty good for a small high school.”

Tomales

Outlook: According to former coach Rob Wenrich, the school decided to pull the plug on the program for this season with only two kids interested in playing.