From a band of “misfits” to a showcase for college talent, the roots of Marin County baseball run deep with the Novato Knicks.

“My memories of the Knicks … that was good baseball,” recalled Marty McHale, a former Branson School baseball coach, who played for the Knicks for about four years around 2009. “Some of the best players in Marin were getting together. We didn’t have the pressure of the collegiate year. We’d get out there and it was a great time. It was good baseball with lifelong friends who I’m still talking to.”

McHale is part of the Knicks’ 37-member inaugural Ed Salmina Hall of Fame class honored at the start of the 2023 season. Salmina was the owner/manager of the Knicks from the team’s early years in the 1960s until his death in 1995.

The first class of inductees is highlighted by current Knicks manager Brett Kim; Jerry Goff, who played for the Montreal Expos, Pittsburgh Pirates and Houston Astros from 1991-96; Texas Rangers associate coach Will Venable; former Knicks GM Chris Kenyon; and College of Marin coach Steve Berringer.

The Knicks have survived lean times over the course of their 60-year history but, even as other teams in the Bay Area folded, they continue to travel up and down the highways from Humboldt to Watsonville, and everywhere in between — even playing the occasional exhibition game at San Quentin.

This year’s Knicks roster includes more than a dozen players from Marin County, among them Tam High grad Jake Moore, who has committed to Chapman College; San Marin High grads John Holtz (Sonoma State), Josh Martin (Santa Rosa JC) and David Skaggs (COM); and current and former College of Marin players Ernie Henderson, Trent Free (Cal State Monterey Bay), Jacob Campbell (Oklahoma Baptist), Ryan Shimabukuro, Joey Taddie, Riley Cronin (Oregon Tech) and Austin Welsh.

Looking at the current Novato Knicks, McHale said, “It’s really good to see where the program is now. The team has come from beer league, from a semi-pro team with a bunch of misfits who were strapping it on for the love of the game, to this current team of young bucks showcasing their talent.”

The defending Norm Thompson Pacific Baseball League champions, the Knicks also compete against teams in the California Collegiate League and the Bay Area Collegiate League with a high-profile schedule.

“What speaks to the future of the Knicks is we want college summer baseball to not get watered down,” Knicks general manager Ryan Cooney said. “Every really good baseball player graduating high school in Marin and Petaluma knows about the Knicks.”

The Novato Knicks are continuing to chart a new course, one that honors the franchise’s foundations while expanding its horizons. Once a popular semi-professional team, for the past seven seasons the Knicks have offered a home to college players looking for a summer home and a chance to play against some of the best talent around.

“This is competitive baseball,” said Lucas Schafer, who played at College of Marin in the spring. “Guys are here to work out the kinks from the previous college season, to improve their games. College ball is maybe more competitive than summer ball, but this is important for developing skills and staying in shape and, maybe, attracting the eyes of scouts.”

While the team’s focus has shifted over the years, the Knicks have long provided an avenue for Marin athletes to continue playing the game they love.

McHale was expected to be taken in the MLB draft soon after high school, but his big league career ended before it started when he was injured after his freshman college season.

“The Knicks gave me an opportunity to play the sport I love,” McHale said. “They gave me the opportunity to compete and to have a great time. Baseball’s been really good to me. When you get older, sometimes you see the game passing you by. But the Knicks were such a competitive team, playing the game at that level got the juices going. If not for the Knicks I wouldn’t have been playing baseball those years.”

Ryan O’Neil, who impressed Knicks founder Salmina during a tryout, joined the Knicks in the summer of 1994 after graduating from San Diego State University.

O’Neil recalled “Quite literally the diamond was our Church … and game day was our ‘Sabbath’ day to be sure. We played for each other as much as anything else. We traveled to every ‘Ville’ from Santa Barbara to the Oregon coast, knew every diamond and dive bar. We got booted from most all motels at some point, but we were always back the next season … together. We played a very high caliber of baseball for the 12-14 of us on the average road trip. We learned to play multiple positions, take dirt from opposing fans and always seemed to use it as fuel for the scoreboard when the game or series was over.”

The Knicks were a mix of players from Marin County high schools “from cops to cons, executives to carpenters, teachers to drop outs, but we all loved and lived for the game and the Novato Knicks,” O’Neil said.

“We’ve heard stories about the old days with the Knicks from former players,” Schafer said. “It sounds like those guys got a little crazy at times. We’re not as crazy as it sounds like some of them could be, but we still have a lot of fun playing on the field, traveling on long road trips, just being friends and teammates.”

Shane Francisco, another 2023 inductee who played for the Knicks from 1989-2007, visited with the Knicks after Friday’s game, congratulating them on the win and sharing a few laughs.

“Back then when I played, we had no uniforms,” Francisco said. “And we’d have nine people, maybe, so we’d call a guy to tell him we’re coming by to pick him up. We’d grab a couple of guys we know and throw them in the car, then drive an hour to go somewhere to get a couple of wins. We played 66 games in a summer, four games each weekend, and I was just grateful that I had a place to play, and the people playing the game just loved it. We sometimes had a skeleton crew, but we were going to live and die with each other.”

The rest of the 2023 inductees are Kevin Wolfe, Sean Foley, Jhaun Devere, Gary Hughes, Tom Gordon, Al Globe, Jason Pandolfi, Tyler Walker, Mike Campias, Paige DuMont, Tony Shapiro, Alex McRobbie, Derrick White, Erik Zammarchi, Tom Arrington, Mike Nackford, Alan Mcloud, Mike Mastroyannakis, Chris Cirallo, Daniel MacDonneil, Joseph Lucues, Nicholas Joly, Thomas Patterson, Brian Barden, Novato High assistant coach Jason Searle, Mike Eberhert, Mike Wills, Drew Miller, Joey Stogner, Gary Hughes, and Jim Cooper.