The Supercopa de Espana for 2023/24 gets underway in Saudi Arabia on Wednesday, January 10.

Barcelona begin their title defence with a semifinal clash against debutants Osasuna, who earned their place in the mini-tournament after reaching last season's Copa del Rey final, while city rivals Real Madrid and Atletico Madrid also clash in the first fixture of the 2024 event.

The competition has changed significantly over recent years, from its format to the location and the time of year it's played. While it might not be the most important of trophies on offer to the biggest clubs in Spain, there is plenty of interest around the matches this week, which all take place at the King Saud University Stadium in Riyadh.

Here's all you need to know about the history of the Supercopa de Espana, how its format has developed, and which team has been the most successful in the competition's 41-year existence.

MORE: Real Madrid vs Atletico Madrid prediction, odds, betting tips and best bets

What is the Spanish Super Cup? Supercopa de Espana history

In line with similar trophies in major European football nations, from England's Community Shield to France's Trophee des Champions and Germany's DFL-Supercup, the Supercopa de Espana was established as an annual event pitting the champions of La Liga against the winners of the Copa del Rey.

The Copa de los Campeones de Espana and Copa Eva Duarte, two of several early versions of the modern Supercopa, took place under a similar guise in the 1940s and early 1950s.

In 1952 and 1953, Barcelona were awarded the Copa Eva Duarte uncontested having won the league and cup double, and this preceded three decades in the wilderness for the format.

The inaugural Supercopa de Espana took place in 1982, with La Liga winners Real Sociedad beating Copa de Rey holders Real Madrid 4-1 over two legs.

The two-legged format set the Supercopa apart from the likes of the Trophee des Champions and Community Shield. It took place in the traditional window at the start of the European season.

The trophy was uncontested in 1984 and 1989 due to Athletic Bilbao and Real Madrid winning doubles. After that, the Copa del Rey runners-up were drafted in to contest the Supercopa in the event of a team winning both the league and cup the previous season. That method is still used to this day, which explains why Osasuna, beaten finalists in last year's Copa del Rey, are competing in the 2024 Super Cup.

Real Madrid won the final two-legged Supercopa 5-1 on aggregate against a Barcelona reeling from Neymar's exit to Paris Saint-Germain in 2017. The following year, double-winners Barca beat Sevilla 2-1 in a one-off game at Stade Ibn Batouta in Tangier, Morocco.

Why is the Supercopa de Espana in Saudi Arabia? Format change explained

In 2019, the Royal Spanish Football Federation (RFEF) signed an agreement with the government of Saudi Arabia to stage an expanded four-team Supercopa in the Gulf state for the next three years in a new mid-season January slot.

The deal was reportedly worth €120 million over the three years and in 2021 the partnership was extended for another decade.

Along with the winners of La Liga and the Copa del Rey, the runners-up in both competitions earn qualification to the Supercopa. In the first four-team edition in January 2020, Real Madrid prevailed having qualified as the third-placed team in La Liga in 2019/20, when Barca won the league and reached the Copa del Rey final.

Indeed, no holder of La Liga or the Copa del Rey has won the Supercopa since the expansion. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, the 2020/21 Supercopa was staged domestically in Spain.

Supercopa de Espana all-time winners: Most Spanish Super Cup trophies

Barcelona's 3-1 win over Madrid last season extended their all-time record haul to 14.

Los Blancos predictably come in second with 12. Madrid and Barca's combined 26 successes make up two thirds of the overall Supercopas held since 1982.

Supercopa de Espana all-time winners

Wins Team 14 Barcelona 12 Real Madrid 3 Athletic Bilbao, Deportivo La Coruna 2 Atletico Madrid 1 Valencia, Sevilla, Real Zaragoza, Real Mallorca, Real Sociedad

Most Supercopa de Espana goals: Messi or Ronaldo?

Lionel Messi is out in front by a considerable margin as the all-time leading scorer in the Supercopa de Espana with 14 goals in 20 appearances.

Real Madrid greats Raul and Karim Benzema are next up with seven apiece, three more than Cristiano Ronaldo's four goals in seven games.

Supercopa de Espana all-time top scorers