My friend Saeed Akhtar Mirza turns 69 today and I’d like you to know him. You are familiar with his work, of course. He makes films famous for using whole sentences as their names.

Albert Pinto Ko Gussa Kyoon Aata Hai? Salim Langde Pe Mat Ro. Mohan Joshi Hazir Ho! Arvind Desai Ki Ajeeb Dastaan.

The titles are original, poetic, appropriate and catchy. So they have come into popular culture, even if the movies did not. The quality of the titles is reflected in their constant use by newspaper headline writers, who can be relied upon to sense a good thing.

Man of many parts: Mirza has directed films, the famous TV serial Nukkad and many documentaries about India. Photo by Santosh Nagwekar/Fotocorp.

Mirza also makes television shows, including what my father thought was the finest serial ever made in Hindi, Nukkad.

And Mirza writes books. His style of writing, original again, is to tell a sweeping historical story through a fictional, often personal, device. The second of his books, The Monk, the Moor And Moses Ben Jalloun, was published earlier this year.

Now meet the man as I know him.

Saeed is one of those rare intellectuals who is as interesting as his work. Forget Bollywood’s directors, even writers tend to be boring people, with little to say. Saeed is one of the three most interesting men I have met in my life.

He is a teller of stories, and he is first-rate at doing this with whatever medium is at hand, film, television or print. I have spent sessions with him doing a “reading” of his next script, acting out every single part in the thing. The last session was 3 hours long, punctuated by breaks for smoking and mixing drinks. It is wonderfully entertaining (though Saeed himself once said the person who does this sort of script narration best is Sudhir Mishra).

I have seen both his books as ideas, as works-in-progress and as drafts, the child-like enthusiasm ringing throughout. I have listened to freshly-written chapters of his books read out by Saeed in his great, booming voice, one hand held out in gesticulation where the text contains speech. He is leonine, a big shaggy lion, full of certitude when he is holding forth.

Saeed is suspicious of state authority and of religion. He tolerates religion, of course, but just about.

Above Saeed’s desk in his Goa flat is a painting by his friend Mickey Patel, a menacing silhouette of a pope.

One visiting pastor saw Saeed’s pope painting and simpered, thinking it was the act of a believer, Saeed told me between great howls of laughter.

He likes nothing more than battling with authority. When the students of his beloved Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) were concerned by management moves to privatize, they turned to Saeed. He became FTII’s president and will ensure that its quality does not fall and that its vast lands in Pune are not handed over to a developer. The students need only call him and he will get into his car and charge at the problem.

Saeed dislikes flying and is driven around India by his Man Friday Ayub, while he sits in front, smoking constantly. One day he asked me to come along as he drove up to Punjab from Mumbai to attend the wedding of an acquaintance’s son. He has a love for the people and culture of India, and I’ll have more to say about this later.

When a friend of mine asked if he would be chief guest at a function in Delhi to preserve the Rajasthani Manganiyar singing tradition, Saeed accepted immediately.

Those who know him will know Saeed’s gentleness, his humanity, his agitation at cruelty. His deeply felt, deeply held liberalism. Though he is the most animated person you will ever see in a discussion, waving his arms about and talking loudly, he otherwise has a sense of great calm about him. One afternoon a few years ago he came to my office to say he had just had a biopsy and would let me know what the result was when it came. He said it in the same tone as he would use for giving someone his address. It turned out to be benign.

I have not spoken about his work. Let me say only that he invests the lower middle class with nobility, as in his movies. He invests the poor with real character, as in Nukkad.

This should not be surprising given that his father Akhtar Mirza wrote one of the great socialist films of Bollywood, Naya Daur (he also wrote my favourite lost-and-found movie, Waqt).

While on the subject of family, of Saeed’s sons, Safdar is a New York banker married to a Chinese girl. Zahir, whose room I am given when I visit Mumbai, is an advertising man in Dubai and married to a Christian girl from Lebanon. Saeed himself displays on his face the Uzbek blood his name announces (“Mirza” is a Mughal title).

It is a United Nations family.

The names of the characters in his films, in case you did not already notice, tell you something else about the man.

My selfish rule is to be friends only with those who have something to offer me by way of stimulation. Being around Saeed has been one of the great educational experiences of my life.

I have lost count of the number of bottles we have opened and finished together, but I am certain that I have fixed more drinks for no other man, including my father.

Saeed is passionate about politics and the state of the world. At his age he is not cynical, which is remarkable and quite unique. I know of absolutely nobody else with his optimism about India, Indians and about the human being.

I mentioned Saeed’s work for television but left out the fact that he made documentaries about India for Doordarshan. Documentaries he shot over four months, travelling with a young and mostly untested crew across the poorest parts of India, driving in two Tata Sumos, staying where they could. Saeed described to me with great feeling how villagers in huts bare of furniture and vessels, with nothing but that day’s meal to call theirs, offered the food to the crew with joy.

There’s little, if any, money in this sort of movie-making but he finds the pleasure of discovering India and its stories irresistible.

How many of Saeed’s fellow Bollywoodwallahs do this? None.

Our public intellectuals—novelists, directors, columnists—look at India and flee from their subject.

This is mainly because of incomprehension but also because of cowardice. This is why India’s literary and creative output is third-rate.

Saeed does not flinch. His reporter’s curiosity overwhelms his other instincts. He must observe. He may not like what he sees but he doesn’t wish it away. He engages. He’s a seeker, and I have no higher praise for an intellectual.

I do not know if Saeed will read this for his wife Jennifer says he’s off again shooting another Doordarshan documentary. For four months a new batch of youngsters will become really acquainted with India for the first time, though they’ve lived here all their lives. Those who watch Doordarshan and chance upon the documentary will wonder where it came from and why there isn’t more programming like it.

Answer: There’s only one Saeed Mirza.

Asked to describe himself by a Telegraph interviewer, Saeed “ponders the question for a few minutes and says: ‘I don’t know what I am quite honestly. I am just trying to be’.”

I know exactly what he is. Happy birthday, my friend.

Aakar Patel is a writer and columnist.

Send your feedback to replytoall@livemint.com