Cross-country explorers, this one is for you! With two sandy beaches, a lake that is a remnant of the ancient glaciers and hiking trails through boreal forest, Aaron Provincial Park is a must-visit this summer.

Technically, it is not a day trip kind of adventure if you’re coming from Toronto considering it’s a 10-hour drive.

If you’re somewhere near the Manitoba border, then you’re in luck. Aaron Provincial Park is located off the Trans-Canada Highway and according to Ontario Parks, it’s “the perfect stopping point for cross-country explorers.”

Recent Posts:

This Ontario park has two beaches & a 100-year-old White Pine forest

10 must-visit public gardens in Toronto this summer

Here you’ll find fishing, birding, boating and canoeing opportunities, along with biking routes.

It’s also home to two hiking trails – Aspen Trail which leads through the remnants of “the terrific wind storm of 1973 and over bare rock surfaces scarred by glaciers which melted 10 to 15 thousand years ago,”; Eastern White Cedar Trail where you can walk through large, historic trees, past shores and wetlands of Thunder Lake and climb up a slope to a clay plain.

The lake itself is a sight to see! Per Ontario parks, Thunder Lake is a remnant of the ancient glaciers that covered Ontario tens of thousands of years ago.

And you can even swim in it as Aaron Provincial Park has two sandy beaches.

They are located on the east and west sides of the park.

Parking, picnic tables and toilet facilities can be found here. It’s important to note that there are no lifeguards posted at the beaches.

Considering it’s a mission to get to this park, you can also camp here – which would probably be ideal if you’re driving from the city.

Aaron Provincial Park offers almost 100 campsites, one-third of which have electricity.

“Campsites can accommodate equipment ranging from tents only to large trailers. Amenities such as water taps, comfort stations and laundry facilities are close by,” shares Ontario Parks.

There’s also one group campsite that accommodates 15 to 50 people. You’ll find water taps and vault toilets on site.

Camping reservations can be made online or by calling the park directly at (807) 938-6534.

Have fun and enjoy your summer!