Career Profile: BA in Business Administration from Oregon State University 2001

Operations Associate for Smith Barney 2001-2003

Financial Advisor for Smith Barney 2003-2008

Financial Advisor for RBC Wealth Management 2008-2020

Financial Advisor for Wells Fargo Advisors in Corvallis – Current

Community/Professional Affiliations:

Secretary for the Good Samaritan Hospital Board

Secretary for the Good Samaritan Hospital Foundation Board

Member of Corvallis Rotary After 5

Committee Member for the Corvallis Half Marathon

Crescent Valley Boys Head Golf Coach

Why are you serving as a Trustee?

“Knowing, sharing and preserving history is vital to any community and I feel strongly of its importance here in Benton County. I am excited to be a part of an organization that helps to enrich and share with those in and beyond our community the importance of our local history for generations to come.”

Career profile: Oregon State University Educational Opportunities Program Director, supporting first-generation, low-income students, students of color and other underserved populations. Taught courses that develop a deeper understanding of the history of students of color at Oregon State University and in Oregon.

Serving at OSU since 1981.

Community/Professional Affiliations:

NASPA-Student Affairs Administrators in Higher Education

AAC&U-Association of American Colleges & Universities

Oregon Commission on Asian and Pacific Islander Affairs – former member

CARDV, Friends of the Library

Why did you join the BCHS board?

“Because I am interested in both learning more about the history of our region and in seeing the development of our understanding of the roles that people of color played in our history. I would like to see if there are ways for groups to collaborate even further in re-discovering this information and providing access to it by the public at large.”

Career Profile:

Western Oregon University Monmouth, Oregon.

*Bachelor of Science Degree Major History, Minor Geography.

Class of 2000.

David Hull Tree Farms Bellfountain, Oregon.

*Assistant Timber, Lands & Operations Manager 2003-present.

Oregon Secretary of State; Archives Division Salem, Oregon

*Historic Document Processor and Microfilm Technician 2000-2002.

Oregon Secretary of State; Archives Division Salem, Oregon

*Student Intern Summer, 1999.

Community/Professional Affiliations:

Benton County Historical Resources Commission

*Commission Member, 2010 – Present

Oregon Logging Conference Eugene, Oregon

*Active volunteer every year at the three-day conference

Pacific Northwest Truck Museum Brooks, Oregon

*Active member and volunteer.

American Truck Historical Society (ATHS) Kansas City, Missouri

*Semi-active member and volunteer.

Muddy Creek Charter School Inavale, Oregon

*Volunteer, groundskeeper/maintenance 2009-2015.

Why did you join the BCHS board?

“I was born and raised here in Benton County and am a fifth generation Oregonian. My

family has been here in Oregon in either Linn or Benton Counties since 1852. Our family’s

deep roots in our community, plus my deep love and appreciation of history, will help me

serve as a Trustee and continue the mission and goals of the Benton County Historical

Society.”

The quest to learn history never stops. The Benton County Historical Society’s mission to

preserve our local history and culture will make it a gem of our community, and I am proud to

be a part of it.

Career Profile:

I retired from Oregon State University on July 1, 2020 after having worked as an archivist there for nearly 30 year – assistant university archivist (1991-1996); university archivist (1996-2011); and director of the Special Collections and Archives Research Center (2011-2020). Prior to OSU, I was the photographs archivist at the University of Texas at Austin’s Barker Texas History Center (now the Briscoe Center for American History) from 1984 through 1990.

As part of my university archivist position, I also served as the consortium director for the Northwest Digital Archives (now Archives West, a program of the Orbis-Cascade Alliance) from 2002-2007. More recently I was part of the OSU150 team that developed the major 150th anniversary exhibit at the Oregon Historical Society. I am also the author of A School for the People: A Photographic History of Oregon State University, published in 2015 by the OSU Press and available at the Corvallis Museum store!

I currently have a courtesy faculty appointment with the OSU Libraries and Press and work on special projects, typically involving some aspect of university history and/or the history of local communities of color.

Community/Professional Affiliations:

Member of the Benton County Historical Society since 1992

Benton County Historic Resources Commission, 1996-2021 (chair, 2004-2021)

Oregon Century Farm & Ranch Program Management Committee, 2005-present

Oregon Historical Society, member, 1992-present

Oregon Encyclopedia Editorial Board, 2006-present

Oregon Heritage Commission, advisory member representing the Oregon Higher Education

Coordinating Commission, October 2018-present

American Association of State and Local History, member, 2021-present

Northwest Archivists, member, 1991-present

Society of American Archivists, member, 1983-present

Academy of Certified Archivists, member, 1989-present

Why did you join the BCHS board?

“I have been a member of BCHS for nearly 30 years and have witnessed it develop into one of the most robust and highly regarded local historical societies in Oregon. We are a vital community asset. I am at a point in my life where I can help the Society continue to develop and be even more impactful.”

Career Profile:

As an artist I began creating artwork by programming a mainframe

computer in Fortran, using mathematical equations to create drawings

and then textiles. These coded algorithmic drawings and textiles are in

collections at the Whitney Museum of American Art in NYC, The Art

Institute of Chicago and the Victoria and Albert Museum in London. My

artwork is exhibited internationally and is represented by RCM Galerie

in Paris. Currently, I am creating hand-woven digital Jacquard textiles.

Recently my artwork was exhibited in a one-person show at the

Schneider Museum of Art in Ashland, and in a group exhibit at the RCM

Galerie in Paris, France. I have also exhibited in the Art Gallery at the

Benton County Historical Museum in Philomath.

I am Professor Emeritus at The School of the Art Institute of Chicago.

In Corvallis I am the Director and Curator of the Truckenbrod Gallery,

creating exhibition opportunities for professional artists.

www.joantruckenbrod.com

Community/Professional Affiliations:

My community and professional affiliations include the OSU Art/Science

Steering Committee, and the Corvallis Artwalk Committee. I am

Director and Curator of the Truckenbrod Gallery. Previously I served on

the Board of COPI, Corvallis OSU Piano International, and the Arts

Advisory Board at OSU, which included sponsoring an Art and Science

Scholarship. I was also a member of the Corvallis Downtown Advisory

Board until Covid closed meetings. I am a member of a group of seven

professional artists that meet in individual artists’ studios to discuss

artworks. These artists are currently exhibiting at Truckenbrod Gallery.

Why did you join the BCHS board?

“I am serving as a Trustee because the Museum embodies the pride and

spirit of the community. It is the site of community identity; historically,

today, and in the future. The pioneering history of Benton County

creates an identity that strengthens community ties, particularly among

young people. Exhibits are innovative and unique, bringing new

perspectives and understanding to visitors, including a broad range of

students. This innovation is mirrored in the design of the Corvallis

museum building.

I am committed to supporting the Museum’s outreach to our diverse

community and educational groups. I am interested in the Museum

connecting with people and groups who are not familiar with the range

of exhibits and collections and exploring opportunities for them to visit

the museum. The Museum presents an inspiring combination of the

Arts in Benton County with the diverse dimensions of our history.”

Career Profile: I am a retired environmental attorney. I worked for the Illinois Attorney General’s office in Chicago prior to moving to the Seattle area in about 1986. After working for three years in the Seattle Office of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, I spent the rest of my career with the Civil Division of the King County, WA Prosecutor’s Office. I served as supervising attorney of the Natural Resources Section for about ten years until I retired in 2017. My wife, Diana, is also a retired attorney, and since she is originally from Corvallis and is part owner of timber property located near Philomath that has been in her family for over 100 years, moving to Corvallis upon retiring was an easy decision.

Community/Professional Affiliations: I am a member of the First United Methodist Church of Corvallis. I am a member of the board of the Marys River Watershed Council and currently serve as chair. My wife Diana is a member of the Benton County Small Woodlands Owners Association, and I regularly attend that organization’s meetings and timberland tours.

Why did you join the BCHS board? Three of the reasons that I joined are the following:

(1) Ron Marek asked that I consider applying.

(2) I have long been interested in, and perhaps fascinated by the history of our nation and its peoples.

(3) I believe local historical societies and museums have a vital role to play in the betterment of our communities.