Photo of Henry van Ameringen from the In the Life collection at UCLA Film & Television Archive.

As the caretaker of In the Life's incredible, pioneering television legacy, the UCLA Film & Television Archive is saddened by the passing of Henry van Ameringen, who championed LGBTQIA and AIDS causes through his philanthropy and ensured a future for the TV program in its early years. As a gay man coming of age in the 1950s, before the Stonewall rebellion and gay liberation movement, van Ameringen fully understood the importance of authentic LGBTQIA representation in the media: “Almost no one talked publicly about gay people at the time, and when they did, it was usually to denounce us as perverts and a threat to youth... The absence of images reflecting real gay life made it easy for people to assume we were everything bad that was said about us,” he wrote in 2016 for the Huffington Post.

In 1992 he learned about the fledgling public TV program, In the Life, which distinguished itself as the first nationally broadcast series to focus exclusively on the lives of LGBTQIA people. Thanks to van Ameringen's support as a key funder, it also became the longest-running series of its kind, airing its final episode in 2012. “The simple fact that there was a television program, airing on public television stations around the country, that represented LGBT people in such a genuine and accurate manner was stunning,” he wrote. “I immediately realized the potential for such a program: if people got to know our community—really know us, in all of our diversity and humanity—it would be much harder to turn a blind eye to the suffering of their LGBT family and friends, or to vote for anti-LGBT laws at the ballot box.”

“Henry van Ameringen's contributions to the groundbreaking In the Life series are truly immeasurable. His legacy lives on in these historic television programs that will continue to inspire and inform for generations to come. UCLA is honored to preserve this pioneering LGBTQIA work and to help carry van Ameringen's heartfelt message of understanding and equality into the future.”—Mark Quigley, John H. Mitchell Television Archivist.

Van Ameringen died on September 9, 2020 at the age of 89. Learn more about his life in obituaries from the New York Times and amNewYork.

Watch the UCLA Film & Television Archive's virtual screening and tribute to van Ameringen: In the Life: Signing On, Signing Off.

Watch Spectrum NY1's “New Yorker of the Week” profile of van Ameringen:

Remembrances from the In the Life family

Jayne Baron Sherman, Board Co-Chair

It is hard to put into words my feelings about Henry van Ameringen and perhaps appropriately so. He was a man who did not embellish with words and who avoided being fêted or showered with praise or gratitude. Henry was that all too rare, authentic good soul: a true philanthropist who lent financial aid as well as personal support with no strings or expectations attached. He came from a place that was heartfelt and not ego motivated. All he wanted in return for his generosity was that those he helped succeed in their missions. I smile when I think about how intimidated many were by Henry. He was no-nonsense, but if you could show him the need he showed up. He wanted to help change the world. And he did. I was lucky to co-chair the In the Life Media Board alongside Henry for over 15 years. He was the perfect partner. We brought different skills to the Board and not only worked well together, we became good friends. We often agreed, but when we didn’t, either of us was willing to accept the other's way based on how it would serve In the Life. A truly self-determined, unsung hero of our movement as well as other important causes, Henry will forever remain a solid pillar of the LGBTQ community. May his memory be for a blessing.

Charles Busch, Host and frequent guest

“It was through In the Life that I began my friendship and long association with Henry van Ameringen. He was a unique combination of quiet subtle thoughtfulness and enormous enthusiasm. It was an honor to be among the artists that he championed and supported. There were times in my career when I've been profoundly discouraged and each time Henry pulled me out of that artistic quagmire by providing me with the means to produce a new show and get out of the sawdust and back on to the high wire.”

John Catania, Producer and Communications Director

“In the early years we never knew month to month if the show would continue due to money, if we could meet the next satellite date, if we could go on telling the real-life stories of LGBT people to America. But then Henry van Ameringen took an interest. I will never forget the day in 1994 when then executive director, Ben Prayz announced in almost disbelief that Henry had written the first really big check and that the series had new life. It was a validation, finally, of our work, and the small group of us young people felt for the first time that the project might survive. Henry was on board, he believed in us, and he would become the essential conduit to the donor community, ensuring that this unexpected and unlikely project would have a future after all.”

Jacqueline Gares, Series Producer

“Henry van Ameringen was an angel living among us. I was so profoundly saddened when he passed away and my heart sank for his spouse, Eric Galloway. I shall always treasure the occasional evenings when I and my spouse, Alexis, would be blessed to dine with Henry and Eric. Henry gave artists the means to do their work but infinitely more important, it was his belief in you and your vision that made you feel all things were possible. Without Henry, Laverne Cox and I would not have been able to produce the documentary film, FREE CeCe!, now taught in schools everywhere. Henry was a force of good in this world and I shall always remember fondly that such a gentle giant considered me a friend. Rest in Power HvA.”

Charles Ignacio, Executive Producer

“It is almost impossible to overestimate what Henry van Ameringen meant to In the Life. After sitting in our studio audience as the guest of a friend of mine, Henry was moved to champion the series, drawing deep-pocketed contributors to support the program at a time when donors were skeptical of the value of LGBTQ voices and faces on national television. Through his unwavering support both as the largest contributor and as Board Co-Chair, Henry ensured that In the Life would stay on the air for 20 more seasons. And now, perhaps most importantly, his legacy will live on for generations in the thousands of hours of historic In the Life content now safely preserved at the UCLA Film & Television Archive. Bravo, Henry, and thank you for believing in us all.”

Katherine Linton, Series Producer and Host

“Through his generous giving Henry van Ameringen was a champion on mental health and an unsung hero to the LGBTQ community. Unsung, because that is just how he wanted it with his quiet and unassuming way. In 2019 Henry gave me a development grant for the documentary Stonewall Rebellion and he made me promise that it would ‘tell our story well.’ The truth of our real-life stories told through In the Life and so many other works Henry supported were important to him because he wanted our community to be treated equally and with dignity. I have spent numerous dinners and attended many events with Henry, but I was never able to fully express my gratitude. How could I, how could any of us. I will always love, admire and honor him in anything I do. We lost a hero, but Henry’s legacy lives on.”

John Scagliotti, Founder and Executive Producer

“After our first season on public television In the Life was broke and in debt to the then enormous sum of $120,000. All our major donors said we should fold the program except one. Henry van Ameringen understood the historic importance of In the Life and appreciated all the hard work that our small staff had done in bringing the first LGBT series to PBS. He went on to become our Board Co-Chair and In the Life became his legacy, which now, because of the UCLA Film & Television Archive, will be preserved for generations. Those that mourn Henry after his passing will be remembering a giant in the struggle for LGBT liberation.”