Since our last town hall, coronavirus trends have shifted with more people vaccinated, Delta variant positive cases increasing and the fall opening of schools quickly approaching.Voice of OC Publisher & Editor-in-Chief Norberto Santana, Jr. and Reporter Spencer Custodio will host the discussion. Guests include:Dr. Regina Chinsio-Kwong, Orange County’s deputy health officerSanghyuk Shin, a UC Irvine epidemiologistVladimir Minin, a UCI biostaticianMelissa Dawn Pinto, a nursing professor who is an expert in long term COVID syndromesDr. Jim Keany, co-director of the Emergency Department at Providence Mission Hospital in Mission Viejo and former hospital chief of staff

Editors’ Note: This dispatch is part of the Voice of OC Youth Media program, working with student journalists to cover public policy issues across Orange County.

Hardline immigration policies have led to consequences that contradict their intentions, and trap people in a complex system with limited rights.

I'm Alexis Allen. I reported, wrote, recorded, and sound designed this podcast on Orange County immigration detention.

In Episode 1, Not Under Arrest, I look at the Orange County jails that house detainees, and one detainee in particular who got stuck inside.

Former Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez, the OC Democratic Party-endorsed candidate, talks about why she’s running to become a county supervisor, representing communities – like Tustin, Orange, Irvine and the canyons – that make up Orange County’s Third District. Sanchez talks about solving homelessness, revising public safety agencies and securing tax resources for Orange County in Sacramento and Washington, D.C.

Irvine Mayor Don Wagner, the OC GOP-endorsed nominee, talks about why he’s running to become a county supervisor, representing communities - like Tustin, Orange, Irvine and the canyons - that make up Orange County’s Third District. Wagner talks about tackling homelessness, regional public safety issues and getting property tax equity for Orange County taxpayers in Sacramento.

At his state office in Sacramento, Moorlach talks about recent legal cases spurring from legislation he co-sponsored, SB 1421, that calls on police misconduct records to be opened for public review. The former County Supervisor and Treasurer-Tax Collector for OC also ponders the future of pensions and California’s budget.

Nick Berardino - president of Valor, the Veterans Alliance of Orange County and President of Heroes Hall Foundation - talks about the challenges facing what he calls America’s most disrespected minority, veterans, as well as the quest for a veterans cemetery in OC.