We have already seen the big blockbuster from the Pistons, saying that both Ben Gordon and Charlie Villanueva have agreed to terms to sign with them. These may not be blockbusters, but they are signings that would have made the Nuggets stronger as a contender.

Chris Andersen

Chris Andersen is currently in Los Angeles meeting up with Denver Nuggets personnel Mark Warkentien.

"I think it's fair to say that both sides are motivated," Warkentien said Wednesday afternoon. "That's why we're in L.A. and meeting today."

Andersen is looking at a deal around five years worth the mid-level exception, which is $5 million range.

"I think that's possible. But we're a team player," Bryant said Wednesday morning. "We'll make the necessary adjustments if we can and find the right fit."

A lot of teams—such as the Houston Rockets—are after Andersen. Former Nugget Dikembe Mutombo has retired and Yao Ming is apparently out for the season. They are in need of some help right now and a 6foot-6 Chuck Hayes isn't going to cut it.

Teams like Dallas, Portland, and Memphis are also interested in Andersen's services. It's known that Andersen has stayed in Denver during his two year ban in the NBA and returning to Denver would be an emotional decision rather than anything else.

Dahntay Jones

Jones has been reportedly been eyed by the Indiana Pacers. Mark Bartelstein, Jones' agent said, "it's too soon to tell" if Jones will be back with Denver. Jones, the defensive specialist, started for the Nuggets this year and his stock rose this year after his spectacular defense.

Anthony Carter

Carter's chances of returning is low. After the Nuggets drafted Ty Lawson to back up Billups, Carter is most likely on his way out.

Linas Kleiza

Kleiza said he is currently in "waiting" mode for free agency. A couple of months ago, it was reported that Kleiza would sign an extension for one year around $2.3 million and have a better chance next year in free agency when the market could be better. Like I previously said in my other article, losing Kleiza would be horrible for the Nuggets.

"Letting Kleiza walk would be one of the worst decisions ever. Kleiza is a proven scorer. He had a career-high 41 points coming off the bench against the Utah Jazz—not starting, but off the bench. He is good enough that the Nuggets were in talks of shipping him to the Kings for Ron Artest.

He is a good backup to Carmelo Anthony and can be put at the two spot if the Nuggets go small.

Let's not forget he is only 24 and if he works on it, can be a premier SF in this league. He has talked about signing a one-year extension with the Nuggets because the economy is weak, and could expect better in 2010.

Re-sign him."

Grant Hill

There is no "if" in this. The Nuggets are going to contact Grant Hill. They have shown interest in the current Suns star.

Hill is a veteran the Nuggets need. Hill will be 37 when the season starts and at this age, he wants a championship. The Nuggets have reportedly offered Hill a contract worth $3 million a year, which is a steal even at the age of 37.