The Church Collective has had the great pleasure of having Eric Persing answer some questions for the site. Persing is the founder and creator of the vastly growing, and increasingly popular virtual synthesizer company known as Spectrasonics. The most well known of their products being Omnisphere, Eric has made a considerable impact in the secular …

Interview // Spectrasonics Founder Eric PersingRead More

It doesn’t matter how many seats are in the auditorium, how talented the musicians, how awesome the gear, or how beautiful the song: at some point or another, we all have to deal with the cancerous disease of complacency. And I’ve noticed that how we deal with it in our circles of influence is not …

Worship Team Building // Dealing With ComplacencyRead More

I understand in this day and age (online giving and what not) that not every church has an offering time during the service. But for those that do, I think we sometimes view it as a disruption to the “flow” of the rest of worship. Before I get to the solution of my title’s problem, …

Worship Planning // Offertory (The Great Interruption)Read More

Miles had the opportunity to speak with Eric Owyoung from Future Of Forestry. A great conversation on the release of their latest EP and the inspiration behind the band.

Artist Feature and CD Giveaway // Future of ForestryRead More

Artist: Future of Forestry Album: Advent Christmas EP Volume 3 Label: Credential Recordings Release: November 12, 2013 I’m not one of those people who have strict personal rules about Christmas music before it’s Christmas season, though I do have reasonable limitations. I’ve always swayed towards more traditional Christmas music and Christmas hymns. …

Worship Review // Future of Forestry // Advent Christmas EP Volume 3Read More

It’s officially the time of year again where we all begin rifling through (or scrolling through if we want to be more realistic here) all of the Christmas records in our collections to search for our favorite renditions of the classic Christmas songs that we all know and love. I’m sure almost every one of …

Monday Musings // Treasuring Traditional Christmas SongsRead More

We’re all about getting the word out for solid groups that honor God in their music! Ryan had the chance to speak with David from Spacesuit. Check out latest EP, We, for your listening pleasure while you read the interview.

Artist Feature // SpacesuitRead More

Artist: Warr Acres Album: Hope Will Rise Label: Dream Records Release: October 29, 2013 If you haven’t taken the time to familiarize yourself with Warr Acres yet, take it from us….you need to! Be sure to check out our interview with them here. Warr Acres hail from Victory Church in Oklahoma City, …

Worship Review // Warr Acres // Hope Will RiseRead More

We had the chance to talk with Warr Acres about their latest album. Be sure to check out our review too!

Artist Feature // Warr AcresRead More

I spend a lot of time in thought. Probably too much. I sometimes will spend nights sitting up wide awake, staring at blank wall, wondering if we’ve completely miss it all. Everything we do at our churches…it’s in vain. I begin to wonder if we are merely a society that reflects what we’ve seen in …

Sunday is DyingRead More

An “aha moment” as Oprah has so called it…that’s what I had. Months ago I attended Sunday evening chapel at America’s Keswick in Whiting, NJ. This place is something that I have taken for granted. The mission of this place in the middle of nowhere on a lake (to the outsider, a summer camp) is …

Monday Musings // Worship Comes in All Shapes and SizesRead More

I talked with Daniela about her church. Check it out! The church I volunteer at “Anthem Church” started back in 80’s with the name “New Beginnings Christian Center,”in 2013 the senior pastor and the leaders decided that it was time to rebrand the church and name it “Anthem Church” since the church moved from a …

Worship Spaces // Anthem ChurchRead More

I had a chance to talk with Kyle Segars, guitarist of Sow & Tether, about their EP project, their Kickstarter campaign, and leading worship for their church. TCC: Tell me about Sow & Tether – how did the band get started? Kyle: All five of us are members at Revision church in Olive Branch, MS. …

Artist Feature // Sow & TetherRead More