Citation preview

OF

MICE AND MAGIC A HISTORY OF AMERICAN ANIMATED

CARTOONS LEONARD MALTIN

cl

i • _1

A 1

OF

MICE AND

MAGIC

t

Other books by Leonard Maltin Movie Comedy Teams The Art of the Cinematographer (originally published Behind the Camera: The Cinematographer's Art)

as

The Great Movie Shorts

The Disney Films Carole Lombard

Our Gang: The

Life

and Times

The Great Movie Comedians Edited by Leonard Maltin

TV Movies Hollywood: The Movie Factory

Hollywood Kids

The Laurel and Hardy Book Real Stars, Vols. 1-3

of the Little Rascals with Richard

W. Bann

r

OF

MICE AND

MAGIC

A History ofAmerican Animated Cartoons

Leonard Maltin Research Associate:

Jerry Beck

McGraw-Hill Book Company New York

Louis San Francisco Auckland Bogota Johannesburg London Madrid Mexico Montreal New Delhi Panama Paris Sao Paulo Singapore Sydney Tokyo Toronto St.

Hamburg

To

my

loving wife,

Alice,

who to

brings such joy

my

life

Library of Congress Cataloging in Publication Data Maltin, Leonard.

Of mice and magic. Includes index. 1.

Moving-picture cartoons

and criticism. I. Title. PN1997.5.M3 791.43'3 ISBN 0-07-039835-6

Copyright

— United States — History 79-21923

© 1980 by Leonard Maltin. All rights

reserved. Printed in the United States of America.

No

may be

reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of the publisher. part of this publication

1234567890 VHVH 89876543210 The editors for this book were Robert A. Rosenbaum and Esther Gelatt, the designer was Elliot Epstein, and the production supervisor was Thomas G. Kowalczyk. It was set in Palatino by University Graphics, Inc. Printed and

bound by Von Hoffmann

Press, Inc.

Contents Preface

vii

1.

The

2.

Walt Disney

29

3.

Max

79

4.

Paul Terry and Terrytoons

121

5.

Walter Lantz

155

6.

Ub Iwerks

185

7.

The Van Beuren Studio

195

8.

Columbia: Charles Mintz and Screen

9.

Warner Brothers

219

10.

MGM

275

11.

Paramount/Famous Studios

305

12.

UPA

317

13.

The Rest

Silent Era

1

Fleischer

of the Story

Filmographies by Studios

Gems

205

337 343

The Walt Disney Cartoons, 343

The

Max

Fleischer Cartoons, 356

Terrytoons, 366

The Walter Lantz Cartoons, 379 The Ub Iwerks Cartoons, 391 The Van Beuren Cartoons, 392 The Columbia Screen Gems Cartoons, 397 The Warner Brothers Cartoons, 404 The

MGM

Cartoons, 425

The Paramount /Famous Studios Cartoons, 432 The

UPA

Cartoons, 444

v

VI

CONTENTS

Academy Award Nominees and Winners

447

Sources for Renting and Purchasing Cartoons

453

Glossary of Animation Terms

451

Index

y

456

1

Preface

I

love cartoons.

always have; as a child of the TV generation, I grew up with Farmer Al Falfa, Porky Pig, Mickey Mouse, and dozens of other cartoon characters. I had no idea they were twenty to thirty years old at the time. They were new to me. As an adolescent was told that cartoons were for kids but I never outgrew my love for these films and their stars. Instead, I became curious to know more about them; when they were I

—

I

made, who created the characters, why some series were funnier than others, and why there seemed to be three thousand mice in every Paul Terry cartoon. All I could find at the library were several books on Walt Disney. General histories of film barely mentioned animation, reserving what little space there was for Disney and the pioneers of experimental animation (Len Lye, Lotte Reiniger,

Norman McLaren, and others). In these surveys, Bugs Bunny much as a passing nod, and neither did his

did not warrant so creators.

For several decades there was a snob barrier that prevented Hollywood cartoon from receiving serious attention. A sly

the

distinction arose

between the "cartoon" and the "animated

nonstudio endeavor, which earned respectability in museums, schools, and publications because it was "artistic." Perhaps Hollywood cartoons were too successful in the commercial marketplace to overcome such feelings. Perhaps their unpretentiousness worked against them. Certainly the fact that the film industry ignored these cartoons when they were still being made didn't help their bid for prominence or posterity. Only in recent years, as young people weaned on these cartoons began to infiltrate the world of film study, has the Hollywood cartoon come into its own. More attention has been focused on cartoons in the past five years than in the previous twenty-five combined. People who once took cartoons for film," the latter term connoting an independent,

—

—

vii

viii

PREFACE

granted are beginning to discover what remarkable films they are and that the great animation directors and artists were outstanding filmmakers, who knew how to use their medium to its fullest potential. Their mastery of cinematic technique was equaled only by their ability to ente/tain. ^Vly friends and colleagues Joe Adamson, Mike Barrier, John Canemaker, and Greg Ford have been pioneers in this "new wave" of recognition.

—

there is much work to be done. When I set out to write book, I discovered that it would involve a great deal of "primary research." There were no sources to consult for some of the simplest details about American cartoon studios. Trade Still,

this

magazines of the twenties, offer, since

news

thirties,

forties had little to was not considered major Hollywood studios

and

of cartoon production

important. Cartoon departments of

were so far removed from the mainstream of daily operations that a spokesman for one company I contacted swore he didn't know such a department ever existed. Compiling this history was something like assembling a giant jigsaw puzzle. Fortunately, many of animation's most distinguished veterans are still alive and were kind enough to share their memories. Many opened their files to lend me valuable documents and illustrations. As this book started to take shape, I decided to confine its boundaries to the American theatrical cartoon, in order to do as thorough a job as possible. A global history of animation, and an American history encompassing independent, sponsored, industrial, and television work, deserve book-length studies of their own. For their help and encouragement I am deeply indebted to Al Eugster, the late Dick Huemer, Shamus Cu'lhane, Chuck Jones, Friz Freleng, I. Klein, Bob Clampett, Jack Hannah, Walter

Lantz, Jack Zander, Preston Blair, Jules Engel, Michael Lah,

Myron Waldman, Dick Lundy, Zack Schwartz, Phil Klein, Ray Patterson, Bill Hurtz, Ed Cullen, Emery Hawkins, Grim Natwick, Harry Love, Sid Marcus, Irv Spence, Bill Littlejohn, Dave Hilberman, Eli Bauer, Al Kouzel, Otto Messmer, Bill Hendricks, Hal Elias, Steve Bosustow, Bill Melendez, Lu Guarnier, Tissa David, Howard Beckerman, Adrian Woolery, Howard Post, Willis Pyle, Paul

versations with

Gene

Ward

Sommer, and Jules Feiffer. Earlier conKimball, Frank Thomas, Ernie Pintoff,

Deitch, Richard Williams, and the late John

Hubley were

also extremely helpful.

Many other people helped me realize this project by finding information, loaning research materials, making films and illus-

PREFACE

trations available,

Mark Mayerson,

and offering moral support: Alan Greenfield, Timbes Friedwold, Gordon Berkow, Wil-

Will

Ron Schwarz, Mark Langer, Leslie Cabarga, Adamson, Ron and Chris Hall, Mark Kausler, David and Kathy Mruz, Gary Terry, Jeff Missinne, Burt Shapiro, Ron Billen, Bob Smith, Steve Schneider, Jerry Haber, Don Krim, Seth liam K. Everson,

Joe

Willenson; Charlie Pavlicek and Milton Menell of Select Film Library; George Nelson, Stanley Solson, Sue Henderson, Rita Moriarty, and Hal Geer of Warner Brothers; Bill Theiss of Via-

com; Bill Kenly of Paramount Pictures; Gary Bordzuk and Hal Cranton of MCA-Universal; Susan Dalton and Maxine Fleckner of the Wisconsin Center for Film and Theater Research; and the staff of the Department of Film at the Museum of Modern Art. Harvey Deneroff generously loaned me his interviews with the late Paul Terry, and with Terry associates Tommy Morrison and Mannie Davis. David R. Smith of the Walt Disney Archives patiently answered dozens of questions and made valuable information available to me. His thoroughness sets a high standard for all film historians.

Jan Kucik shared his knowledge and animation materials with equal enthusiasm. Phil Johnson proved that frame enlargements don't have to be blurry, and made it possible for me to illustrate important

moments from many

cartoons.

gave me the opportunity to develop on the history of animation at the New School

In 1973 Michael S. Engl

and teach

a class

for Social Research

groundwork

my

in

New

York. This experience laid the

will always be grateful to Mike kindness and support. Donald Spoto continues to encourage and nurture this class. In my class I met Jerry Beck, whose tireless devotion to cartoons made him a valuable colleague on this book. His diligence in research is exceeded only by his love for Bosko, which I shall not attempt to explain. My acknowledgments could not be complete without a sincere thank you to Barry Lippman, who initiated this project and stood by patiently while I missed several deadlines, and to John Thornton and Gerry Howard, who nurtured it to life. Finally, I would like to thank my wife, Alice, who not only transcribed most of my interviews and typed much of the manuscript, but put up with creeping cartoonitis for well over a year. Without her love and support this book would not exist. for

his

for

book, and

1

1

The Silent TOWARD

THE END

of the 1920s,

a

large

group of New York animators held a testimonial dinner for Winsor McCay, whom most considered to be their mentor. As I. Klein recalls it, McCay concluded his brief remarks with a candid and unflattering appraisal: "Animation should be an art, that is how I had conceived it. But what you fellows have done with it is [make] it into a trade not an art, but a trade bad .

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

.

luck."

McCay was become

only half right. Animation had but that did not obliterate its

a trade,

potential as an art. Like the comic strip, the

animated cartoon became held it back in the

What

nomic pressure

to

make

a

popular

silent era

art

form.

was

eco-

the cartoon a screen

equivalent of the comic strip— and produce it nearly as often. Animators who had to

crank out one film a week had little opportunity to analyze their medium, and no time for experimentation or improvement except on the job. That the medium progressed as far as it did by the 1920s is a tribute to the early animators' dedication and spirit. But animation developed only so far in the silent era and then marked time. There was nowhere else to go within the rigid boundaries of silent black-and-white gag cartoons, it

seemed. Creative

men

continued to turn out but a treadmill effect started to set in until sound lifted animation out of the doldrums. That considered, it's astonishing to see how many major developments came about entertaining

films,

prior to 1920,

when

the motion picture itself

was still in its infancy. The century began with J. Stuart Blackton's THE ENCHANTED DRAWING, a short Edison film based on that newspaper cartoonist's

"chalk-talk" vaudeville act:

On

a large

pad of paper Blackton draws a man's face with a bottle and glass above his head. Then he reaches toward the easel and "lifts off" now actual threethe bottle and glass dimensional objects to pour himself a drink. This displeases the cartoon man,

— —

whose facial expression turns sour at same moment the bottle and glass

the are

removed. There is no animation in this 1900 short, but there is imaginative use of the motionpicture medium. Blackton understood that

2

OF MICE AND MAGIC

years later in the film that

is

often cited as the

animated cartoon, humorous phases of funny faces. Here, letters, words, and faces come to life, drawn by an linseen hand. This indeed was "movie magic." Of course, creating the illusion of movement through animated drawings predated the motion picture by many years. Sequential drawings were made by cavemen, and first

numbered illustrations traced the development of many later civilizations. The discovery of "persistence of vision" in the 1800s led to the

invention of such devices as the zoe"wheel of life." This was a cylinder

trope, or that

spun on an

was

a strip of

axis; inside the

open drum

drawings, each slightly different from the one preceding it. The drum was perforated with tiny slits through which the eye could see when the cylinder revolved.

The effect of "moving pictures" was created by the human eye, which held one image intact until the next one appeared. The succession of slits acted something like a shutter on a projector. The zoetrope was a direct forerunner of the motion picture, and the men who created drawings for it were in fact the first

animators.

But the zoetrope, and machines like it, were considered little more than novelty

—

toys a more sophisticated version of the "flip-books" that were also popular at this time. Perhaps it was the simplicity of the

Stuart Blackton brings drawings to PHASES OF FUNNY FACES (1906).

J.

life in

humorous

since film is a sequence of individual frames, one could simply halt the movement of film through a camera, make appropriate changes leavin props and drawings, and continue

—

ing the motion-picture audience to challenge the credo that "seeing

Blackton

is

believing."

advanced his experiments

six

drawings that inspired such feelings. The actions depicted in this kind of animation were basic and brief: a girl skipping rope, a man jumping through a hoop, and the like. Even so, these devices established the elementary procedures by which animated films could be made. One must speculate that the reason no one attempted to make animated cartoons for so many years after the introduction of film was the tremendous amount of labor involved. At sixteen frames per second, it would take nearly a thousand drawings to create one minute of an-

THE SILENT ERA

imation

—a

from the demands of a were also technical quesbe answered, and no one with expefar cry

flip-book. There

tions to

rience to consult.

Two men overcame

these

obstacles

in

and produced animated films that can stand today as models for all to follow. One was a Frenchman, Emile Cohl; the other was an American, Winsor McCay. While this book is concerned with American animation, it would be irresponsible to ignore the accomplishments of Emile Cohl. their pioneering efforts

Several years before

McCay made

his

first

short subject, Cohl produced a series of ani-

mated

embrace sophisticated conmovement, design, humor, and format. They have every ingredient one expects to find in a modern cartoon except for sound films that

cepts of

and

first

J.

who

work may was Blackton

Stuart Blackton's it

directed the live-action sequences of

McCay's first film. Whatever the case, McCay plunged into this experiment with typical enthusiasm and stamina. He worked as much as four years on little nemo, which finally debuted in April 1911. After laboriously animating four thousand drawings,

—

the 35mm frames to achieve a particularly striking effect in his vaudeville act, where the short subject was first unveiled. (This color footage still exists.)

McCay hand-colored

no story line to the animated film. McCay's comic strip exclaim via comic-strip balloons, "Watch us move!" and that's exactly what they do in a continuous parade of movement, metamorphosis, and There

The

is

stars of

—

flip upside down fun-house mirror. The

exaggeration. Characters

and

color.

film effort.

have been another influence;

stretch as

if

in a

Cohl's comic vignettes are played in pan-

tomime by

a cast of stick figures,

drawn

in

white against a black background. The settings materialize, and change, by "metamorphosis," evolving from one to the next in a continuous flow as if their lines were made of clay, to be reshaped at the artist's whim. The ingenuity of a film like drame chez les fantoches (1908) is matched only by its charjn.

it

McCay never mentioned Cohl's work, so known whether he had the opportu-

isn't

nity of seeing these films before

embarking

own movie projects. Winsor McCay was a newspaper

on his

whose

cartoon-

during the first ten years of this century are widely considered to be the pinnacle of American comic art. McCay combined the abilities of a superb draftsman with the imagination of a master storyteller. Such comic strips as Little Nemo in Slumberist

land

efforts

and Dreams

of a Rarebit Fiend are

still

cel-

ebrated today.

McCay

credited his son's acquisition of

several flip-books as the inspiration for the

Walt Disney examines a praxinoscope, a close cousin to the zoetrope. Sequential images appear on the inner lining of the cylinder; when the cylinder is spun, one looks in the mirrors at the core of the machine to get the illusion of moving pictures.

3

4

OF MICE AND MAGIC

Thus, the notion of

was astonishing;

a

drawing coming to

life

that a dinosaur could be the

was positively awesome. Advertisements for gertie proclaimed, "She eats, drinks, and breathes! She laughs and cries! Yet, she lived millions of years before man inhabited this earth and has never been seen since!" subject of such a cjrawir^g

McCay

incorporated the animated Gertie ingenious vaudeville routine in which he appeared as her trainer and bantered with her onstage. She would seem to obey his commands, react to his remarks, and even catch a pumpkin thrown into her mouth as a snack. For a finale, McCay would appear to walk right onto the screen and be into

an

away on Gertie's back. gertie had a galvanizing effect on audiences. Those who could not see McCay in person enjoyed a one-reel film reminiscent of little nemo in which the cartoonist accepted a bet from fellow cartoonists (including George McManus) that he could make a dinosaur come to life. The audience was then given a brief idea of how the film was made, with towering stacks of drawings, each different from the one preceding it. Finally, McCay's dialogue with the dinosaur was carried

gertie the dinosaur (1914) devouring a treetop.

and the animation prehe was, McCay made sure that his use of perspective was exact and that the drawings remained true-to-character no matter how the figures moved around. little nemo was well received, and McCay set to work on a second animated film, the story of a mosquito. This one took a year to complete and went beyond the pyeffect is dreamlike,

cise: Perfectionist that

nemo

comic story of a mosquito's encounter with a drunken man. McCay later wrote: "While rotechnics of little

to tell the

these films made a big hit, the theatre patrons suspected some trick with wires. Not until I drew gertie the dinosaur did the audience understand that 1 was making the drawings move." This may sound hard to believe, but it's true. Most movie audiences were naive and still trying to accustom themselves to the idea of motion pictures per se.

reproduced as a series of title cards. There were ten thousand drawings in this one-reel film, each one inked on rice paper

and mounted on cardboard. The entire was ture Gertie plus background

—

—

drawn

for

McCay

did

each individual frame of

picre-

film.

the drawings of Gertie, while John A. Fitzsimmons traced the backgrounds. This accounts for the unstable quality of the line drawings, which "shimmer" throughout the film; for all his ingenuall

his assistant

ity,

McCay

wasn't able

to lick this

problem.

— —

The artist who was known for his speed and accuracy set up a primitive machine to flip

his finished animation.

him

to

study his

This enabled redo what-

own work and

D

5

THE SILENT ERA

ever sequences he found unsatisfactory.

tania surpass anything attempted along

But McCay had no one to consult for guidance in the art of animation. It was virgin territory, and he set his own precedents. When Gertie uproots a tree trunk and devours it for lunch, McCay painstakingly animates the roots coming up through the

these lines for the next thirty years. His

and illustrates the particles of dirt from the trunk as Gertie hoists it aloft. He shows Gertie chewing, swallowing, and drinking, breathing, dancing, crying somehow, we ignore the shimmering lines, the dim quality of most surviving prints. Gertie lives. She has personality and she exudes the same impish charm today that surface, that

human

life-

form, in detail

treatment of the (centaurs) or en masse (lusitania), would make any animator proud today.

like

By the

early 1920s

McCay

drifted

away

Original advertisement for gertie the dinosaur.

fall

—

winsor (H? paraiMioa of the

,

Creator of Little Nemo, Dreams of a Rarebit Fiend and Other Newspaper Cartoons

an overgrown child, playful and mischievous. captivated audiences in 1914. Gertie

When McCay

is

scolds her, she begins to cry,

contemporary audiences react audibly to this comic-poignant scene. Winsor McCay breathed life into an inanimate character, and this was his greatest achievement. It did not go unnoticed, gertie was so successful that it made people forget the animated films that preceded it even McCay's. For years gertie has been named in film histories as the first animated cartoon. With all its impact, it might as well have

and

irar

Hunt N«wtpap*n)

even

AND

HIS

WONDERFUL

TRAINED DINOSAURUS

—

(ll>A

TMI

IVIBY

COMMAND'

til Mir IIWD Mill IONS CM YEARS IIOCI

launched an entire industry. Oddly enough, McCay had no desire

tie

a part of that industry.

He

to

with his newspaper

own

be

preferred to con-

tinue his vaudeville appearances, keep films at his

A

strips,

up

and work on

efforts are

IN

HABIIID MIS

SCICKI MONiTTR

LAMTH AN* ItAS

TMtS

NIVU

iui

siin viNxr "

ONCE RULf

HANET SKUfTONS NOW KING UNEARTHED MEASURING f ROM

THIS

90t

pace.

His post-GERTiE

HAM

ACCORDING TO

TO 160 k LENGTH AN fltPMAHT SHOULD Bf A MOUSE BfSIDC IM

distinguished

by the same graphic precision he brought to his newspaper work. Perspective and anatomical detail were of paramount importance to McCay. His naturalistic animation in the CENTAURS and THE SINKING OF THE LUSI-

GERTIE

THE 6RFATFST ANIMAL ACT

the

WORLD III

6

OF MICE AND MAGIC

him to turn out a newsspoof "called the boob weekly, and

lucrative contract for reel

Winsor McCay draws Gertie for his cartoonist friends (including Bringing Up Father's George McManus, seated at left) at Riesenweber's Restaurant in New York, as part of the filmed introduction for his animated cartoon.

Goldberg opened his own tiny studio to churn out the films Vhile 'keeping up with his newspaper assignments. The series was a great success, but after a year Goldberg was exhausted and had to quit. Biographer Peter C. Marzio reported that Rube netted $75,000 from his year of labor. This was a hefty sum in those days, especially for animated cartoon work; it gives some measure of Goldberg's popularity. The two surviving entries from this series, nutty news and leap year, are downright hilarious, the latter chronicling the story of "Miss Ophelia Fadeout, whose face had frightened all the children in the neighborhood, but who, nevertheless, still hopes to chloroform some poor simp into matrimony." George McManus, Milt Gross, and Sidney Smith were other comic strip men who tried their hand at animation, but they lacked the dedication or interest to stay with it. It

remained

for others to shape the animated cartoon into a continuing commercial format.

from animation altogether, but he proudly called himself the "creator of animated cartoons," and in a very real sense he was. Other comic artists tried to capitalize on McCay's success by making animated cartoons. Henry (Hy) Mayer, prolific illustrator, author, and onetime editor of puck, drew comics on-screen for the Universal Weekly as early as 1913 and soon took on young Otto Messmer later to be animator of Felix the Cat as his assistant. He also had a popular series that appeared on screen magazines as travelaughs. Bert Green, who worked with Mayer at one time, provided brief cartoons for the weekly pathe news and in 1921 produced a special short subject on the making of animated films. Rube Goldberg pursued the animated cartoon with characteristic zeal. Pathe signed a

—

—

John Randolph Bray was a successful newspaper cartoonist who became intrigued with animation around 1910. "I thought there was something new and original that would get over big," he told Harvey Dener.

(He also admitted, "I thought there was good money in it.") But Bray was convinced that there had to be a simpler way to make a cartoon than drawing every picture in its entirety over and over off in a 1972 interview.

again.

He abandoned

his

newspaper work

to

concentrate on this problem and turned out a charming one-reel short called the dachs-

hund and the sausage artist's dream).*

*While this film

is

(also

for release

as

THE

of the film

by film historians, it by Pathe until June 1913.

often dated 1910

was not announced

known

The premise

THE SILENT ERA

was simple: An

artist is

finishing a drawing.

interrupted while

When

he's out of the

room, his cartoon dog eats a plate of sausages sitting on top of a bureau. The artist returns and can't believe his eyes.

When

Bray showed his finished film to the producer-distributor Pathe, encouraged Bray to make others and offered to distribute these cartoons. Bray's second film introduced a character called Colonel Heeza Liar, based on the tale-spinning Baron Munchausen, colonel heeza liar in Africa (1913) opened with a stanza that announced its topical premise: "Heeza Liar was his name And Colonel was his handle. He roamed the desert seeking fame To snuff out T.R.'s candle." T.R. was, of course, Charles

Teddy Roosevelt, whose African hunting exploits had been front-page news and the inspiration for several live-action films. (A subsequent heeza liar episode caricatured

Woodrow

Wilson.) In Bray's cartoon, a kangaroo hops into the foreground from the distant horizon; the Colonel emerges from the kangaroo's pouch and tips his hat to the camera. The balance of the film consists of Heeza Liar's escapades with various jungle animals such as a playful chimpanzee and an enthusiastic bear who likes to hug. All the com-

mentary

is

adequate. Bray is true to perspective and proportions; when the character runs in circles, his drawings is

remain consistent and accurate. Movement is not smooth, but it's more than adequate to put over the simple story and gags. One minor flaw, common to many silent cartoons, is that the camera picks up wrinkles in the animation paper. colonel heeza liar in africa is considered the first commercial-cartoon release; it was neither part of a vaudeville act nor a onetime endeavor. It was the beginning of a film

and

which was granted on August 11 of that method of making animated cartoons. Bray would print many copies of a background setting on translucent

ent,

year, for a labor-saving

paper.

On

different sheets, specific portions

would be blocked

of the settings

out.

Then

these could be laid over blank paper on

would animate only the part had to move. The translucent sheets would blend together under the camera lens and appear to be one finished drawing. In his patent application, Bray used colonel heeza liar in africa to illustrate this method and showed how a scene could be broken down to such specifics as having the character and background printed in their entirety except for the Colonel's head, which was to twist around. He admitted that there were times when it was easier to simply redraw the whole figure instead of spending the time and effort to print so many component sheets. He also outlined his ability to which the

artist

of the scene that

replace

the

drawn

character

paper cutout

sequences with

a

achieve a certain

effect.

in in

some

order to

written in rhyming verse.

Technically the film

series,

Bray was responsible for other milestones as well. In January 1914 he applied for a pat-

this

marked

animation historv.

a turning point in

John R. Bray's colonel heeza liar

in

africa (1913).

7

8 J.

rtoctss or

BEAT.

R.

in uticies

J. 1.

n>i noDOviio 4rruc*titi nut jii

Hovna pictqus.

1,107,193.

BRAY.

PBOCESS Of AND ARTICLES FOB PBODOCINO MOVING PICTOBES

Patented Aug.

1,107,193.

11, 1914.

Patented Aug.

r,

9

11, 1914.

A

«5El>i L

*

T

J

7/

n3z

73'

K

*5ft

''it

„'

fit

/r-

J.

R.

Illustrations from Bray's patent application, using this scene from colonel heeza liar in Africa to show his "assembly line" method of preparing each frame of the

BRAT.

PBOCESS Of AND ARTICLES fOB PBODOCINO MOVINO PI0T0BE8.

Patented Aug.

1,107,193.

11, 1914.

cartoon.

7

2

fij.8

In other words, Bray endorsed any technique that would save the artist time in making his animated cartoon particularly since most of these corner-cutting ideas were undetectable to an audience watching the

—

finished product. In July 1914, Bray applied for a second patent,

which was not granted

9, 1915. In this

until

November

application, Bray described a

simple method for applying a range of gray tones to animated films

— which

until this

time had been mostly black-and-white line drawings. He wrote: iHvtnro*

By means of

my

present invention,

I

am

able to

give to different parts of the picture, a different tone or shade in a very simple and inexpensive

— THE SILENT ERA

manner. Not only does the varying of the shade or tone in different parts of the picture render the latter much more attractive and effective, and cause desired parts of the picture to stand out [it] softmore distinctly, but at the same time ens the otherwise objectionable white glare and

but still be sufficiently translucent for the present purposes if a light be placed in the rear. The sheet may be even more nearly transparent than tracing

makes the picture

shortened

.

.

.

.

.

eyes of the observer. Furthermore, the picture, if appearing upon the screen as black lines upon a white surless trying to the

face, will also show as black lines any scratches which may be on the film due to repeated use and careless handling. By means of my invention, I am able to render these far less conspicuous and thus greatly increase the number of times which the film may be used and give satisfactory results.

proposed was

a var-

iation of his earlier process: breaking

down

The method

that Bray

all its basic components, then various parts of the scene both

the scene into filling in

character

and

background

— with

—

black,

white, and gray-tone paints on the back side of translucent sheets, producing as many as five layers for each shot. Some, of course, would remain stationary during the animation process, and others would move and

change. Obviously, this technique approaches the

development

of a

modern system

But Bray was unable

paper, as for instance celluloid.

.

of anima-

Celluloid.

— familiarly — that effected the single

This was the word

to "eel"

change in cartoon production. While Bray came near the target with his detailed and well-organized ideas, it was another former newspaper cartoonist, Earl Hurd, who hit bull's-eye. On December 19, 1914, he applied for a patent on the process that is still used today in the production of animated cartoons. Hurd proposed the drawing of a complete, stationary background on paper, with the characters inked and painted on clear celluloids laid on top. "I believe am the first to employ a transpar-

greatest

I

ent sheet or a plurality of transparent sheets

background which is photographed therethrough upon the negative film," he stated in his patent application. He went on to explain:

in conjunction with a

In

my

process a single background

is

used

for the

entire series of pictures necessary to portray

scene.

The background shows

of the scene that

all

one

of those portions

remain stationary and may con-

to refine his proc-

veniently be drawn, printed, or painted on card-

its simplest form. He came close, and even mentioned the one word that would later revolutionize the animation industry but only as an afterthought:

board or other suitable sheet. prefer to paint the figures of the background in strong blacks and whites upon a medium dark gray paper and when

tion.

ess to

I

the transparent sheet carrying the is

In carrying out

made

my

invention, the pictures are

any suitable manner on separate sheets of material having such a degree of translucency or transparency as will permit the tone or shade producing layer to be seen through the sheet with in

the desired degree of distinctness. In practice, I preferably employ tracing paper, but it is evident

having a different degree of translucency, might be employed under other that other material

conditions

to

secure

instance, the sheet

thickness as to

the

may be

same

results.

For

and be ordinarily considered opaque, of such material

movable objects

placed over this gray tone of the background,

the objects on the transparent sheet appear to

stand out in

relief,

giving what

may be termed

a

"poster effect." It is important to note that Hurd was not only interested in placing his characters on eels, but he was like Bray interested in using this technique to save work. A crucial feature of Hurd's patent was the use of several eels together. The example in his patent papers shows a woman spanking her little boy. In this action, only her right arm and

—

—

OF MICE AND MAGIC

E. HIIRO.

Ploctss of and apparatus rop producing MOVING pictures.

E.

HURD.

PROCESS Of AND APPARATUS FOB PRODUCING MOVING PICTURES.

Illustrations

from Earl Hurd's patent application.

his legs actually

had

are

era that production

move, so these components on separate eels, while another stationary eel shows the woman's body and the boy on her lap. Thus it was not Hanna and Barbera

who

discovered assembly-line animation in the television era; J. R. Bray and Earl Hurd

preceded them by forty years.

Ironically,

Hurd's

cel-and-background

process was not immediately taken up as standard procedure. Most early animators

work on paper and saw no reason to complicate matters by inking those drawings onto eels. While Hurd's method preferred to

its

supporters,

it

was not until the sound was standardized that

way.

Oddly enough,

it

was another patented

process of Bray's that became the favored

method

in

early

animation studios. This

on July 30, 1915, and patented April 11, 1916, proposed that the stationary objects of a scene be drawn on a translucent sheet and laid over a piece of paper where characters and objects would be animated. The end result was much the same as with Hurd's procedure the background was drawn only once but, as Bray pointed out, in this method one could show characters method,

filed

— —

THE SILENT ERA

walking behind objects in an utterly simple and realistic fashion because they actually were being photographed "underneath"

The next major steps came from an orgabeing the first fullIts founder was Raoul Barre, a French-Canadian artist who, credited

as

fledged animation studio.

many newspaper

like so

cartoonists,

became

intrigued with the possibilities of animation

during the teens.

He and

Bill

Nolan made

primitive animated advertising films as early

two years

as 1912;

later,

Barre opened his

own

studio in the Bronx, with Nolan at his

side.

Here, three important developments

emerged within The first was

made use

a year's time.

"peg system" invented by had to use makeshift methods to "register" a

one on top of another.

of a system of crosses in the

four corners of the drawing, a form of registering

those objects.* nization

exactly superimposed,

Bray

borrowed

from

color

printing

techniques. "In 1914 Barre resolved the problem of

and superimposition by creating the 'peg system.' Each drawing could now be

registration

mechanically perforated. These holes in the sheets of drawings allowed them to be perfectly aligned on a peg board. In this way the successive phases of the animation process were assured of exact correspondence." Barre's next development was the "slash system," a variation on Bray's methods in which the animation paper was cut or "slashed" at the dividing line between sta-

movement. One charac-

Barre. Until this time, animators

tionary objects and

various

first piece of paper while another moving character was animated on successive sheets laid underneath. This system was used at several studios through the 1920s. The last great breakthrough came from Bill Nolan, who was soon to achieve fame as one of animation's finest practitioners. He discovered that if a background was drawn on long sheets of paper, it could pass "underneath" a character and provide the illusion of horizontal (or even vertical) movement, even though the character was walking in place. This device became a vital part of animated film making. There were other ideas and inventions, of course, in the early days of animation. Barre experimented with new techniques, such as animating "special effects" on glass, overlaid on the pen-and-ink drawings. Veteran animator Grim Natwick feels that one of the most important steps was the invention of "the glass disk in the center of the drawing board, in the 1920s. That facilitated better drawing because you could always swing the

their drawings, so that each successive trac-

ing was in perfect alignment with the one before.

In

his

brochure

"In

Barre," published in 1976

Search

of

Raoul

by the Cinema-

theque Quebecoise, Andre Martin has written: "Winsor McCay used a paper cutter to give perfectly straight edges to the sheets of paper and right-angle forms to keep them .

.

.

•Walter Lantz recalls using a variation of this process

when he

started

working

at the

Hearst International Stu-

dio in 1916. Matters were simplified

somewhat because

the "backgrounds" were incredibly sparse. "Usually,

we'd have the horizon lines very high," Lantz recalls, "and then we'd cut out that sheet of paper right below the horizon line and use that as an overlay on the drawing. Then, if we had a chair or any object that the character had to walk in front of, we had to trace that chair with the character as he went by it. It would wiggle all over the place, but that's how we did it." Paul Terry developed another method that involved double-exposure. "I'd photograph the background first,

would reverse the

film and make a male and he explained to Harvey Deneroff. In other words, a matte process. But Terry soon abandoned this modus operandi in favor of Hurd's eel method.

and then

1

female of

it,"

ter

might remain on the

standing

still

disk around to

make

a nice line

on things.

12

OF MICE AND MAGIC

Rather than obstructing with your hand, you could see what you were doing." Credit for this advancement goes to animator George Stallings.

But the biggest advancement during the was the development of animation itself: as an art, as an industry, as a

teens

profession.

Animation,

is

like live-action film

making,

credited with being the

first.

He

up shop in the Bronx, and hired two young cartoonists, Gregory LaCava and Frank Moser. Their first assignment was a series of films called animated grouch chasers, produced and released by Edison in 1915-16. These shorts opened with liveaction footage and segued into animation. It was a landmark series. Andre Martin set

writes:

3fie

thirty years.

hatches a small

obvious that Barre con-

A young girl's chaperone is literally transformed into a dragon in an episode of cartoons IN THE PARLOUR. In BLACK'S MYSTERIOUS box, two hairy arms emerge from a fantastic box, drag the hero inside and end up grabbing anything within reach. mation.

In 1916 newspaper tycoon William Randolph Hearst, who was then enjoying great success publishing and syndicating comic strips, decided to open an animation studio

bring these cartoon properties

to

screen.

He

some

vention,

Advertisement for Raoul Barres

drawings.

first

cartoon series.

CHQSEli G&OVCH Barre Cartoons ~ b$ Raolk.

company

called his

to

the

International

Film Service and hired LaCava, Moser, and Bill Nolan away from Barre. LaCava was put in charge, and, possibly through his inter-

The animated grouch chaser series developed examples of logically structured metamorphosis and nonsense that defined the standard of carica-

Animated

car. It is

sciously introduced surreal elements into his ani-

was centered in New York in the teens, and three main cartoon studios emerged: Raoul Barre, Hearst International, and J. R. Bray. Barre's

American animated drawing for the next In cartoons on the beach, Mr. Hicks gets lost in the sky and casually takes a bite out of a cloud, as a result & which he suddenly sprouts wings. In cartoons in the hotel, a cow eats Silas Bunkum's beard, immediately grows a beard of its own and heads for the barbershop; a chicken eats ostrich feed, grows to gigantic proportions and lays an enormous egg from which

ture in

of this studio's

work load was

"farmed out" to Barre. In particular, Barre animated a number of the phables series based on Tom E. Powers's clever comic Barre's association with Hearst

was

short-

however. In that same year he joined forces with another cartoonist, Charles Bowlived,

ers,

who had

Bud

Fisher's popular comic strip

jeff,

and made the

acquired the screen rights to initial shorts.

mutt and

Peter Milne

wrote in the Motion Picture News of April

15,

1916:

If

we were

in

instantly seize

the

upon

we would toothache and the

exhibiting line jeff's

submarine, the first two animated cartoons [They] are excellent drawn by Bud Fisher. animated cartoon comedies containing funny .

.

.

— THE SILENT ERA

Mr. drawings and funny plots and real plots. Fisher has mastered whatever difficulties confronted him when he decided to draw for the camera, in exhaustive style. His cartoons are rapid in action, smooth in execution, void of eye-straining jumpiness, and, what is superfluous to add, they picture the same Mutt and Jeff that cavort in the .

.

.

GENTLEMEN Of THE PEACE

CONGRESS

—

- THINK WE SHOULD ANNEX PATAGONIA! -

FIRST

I

TO SWEDEN.

SECOND

AH-ER-A-

papers.

Fisher, already wealthy

from the comic

more than one hundred newspapers, launched The Mutt and Jeff Film Company with Bowers in charge, but within the year Bowers moved in with Barre strip,

which ran

in

at his studio. Fisher's original

ute the shorts himself gave

method

idea to distrib-

way

to the

more

having an established company Fox Films handle that chore. One thing Fisher never surrendered was his public image. At no time were the names of Barre or Bowers mentioned in connection with these animated films. If one believed the considerable publicity that surrounded practical

—

this series,

Bud

of

—

Fisher did

1919 press release

it all

r>0

MUTT and JEFF

and spoke of his recent

since

my

ANIMATED CARTOONS

WILL HELP YOU GET THE CROWD ..

A

-.SIDNEY"

topical

series

trade advertisement for the

MUTT and

JEFF

from 1918.

return."

This must have come as news to Barre, Bowers, and their staff, who seldom saw Bud Fisher on the studio premises even when he wasn't traveling abroad. Animator I. Klein recalls that he occasionally visited and: "On those occasions he always arrived with two tall

YOURSELF -PROFITS

CAPTAIN BUD FISHERS

himself. In a

Fisher was "interviewed"

travels in Europe. am mighty glad began, "I "First of all," he me pretty war over. It kept busy over the is there drawing for the animated screen and directing the productions by cable. I picked up a great many ideas in my travels and have been putting Mutt and Jeff through the paces

SOME ANNEXING

show-type

girls.

Never with the same

two. He'd stroll around the studio with his hat on, thumbs in the armpits of his vest, the girls holding on to his elbows, his head tilted

back in regal fashion. From his Olympian height he couldn't see the hired help."

Far from relying on Fisher,

the studio

gathered some promising young talent over the next few years: Dick Huemer, Burt Gillett, Mannie Davis, Ben Sharpsteen, Vladimir (Bill) Tytla, Albert Hurter, 1. Klein, Ted Sears, George Rufle, Ben Harrison, Manny Gould, George Stallings, and Frank Moser even- one a name to reckon with in the continuing development of animated cartoons.

"Vet" Anderson, a well-known editorial cartoonist, also joined the staff,

Milt Gross did

and reportedly

a brief stint there.

13

OF MICE AND MAGIC

Huemer, who later

wrote:

Barre

was

started at the studio in 1916,

which was ters of the

a standard feature of movie theaday, and then proceeded to lead

—

band himself his baton keeping perfect time for the tuneDeing played. the

good man

a

self; a fine arts

work

An

himpainter rather than a cartoonist, he to

for.

artist

had a deep devotion to the nascent business. And it was just barely that, especially from an economic standpoint. You certainly couldn't in those days call it an art form. But long before Disney, he had the idea of plowing back what profits he made (and they were indeed minuscule) to produce better pictures, create a demand for them, and thus make more money for all concerned, artist

A

later film,

was enthusiasti"Wid" Gunning in

strike, F.

C.

the trade magazine Wid's Daily 18, 1920:

on January

Following the course so common now, Mutt and decide to go on strike in this Fox animated cartoon. Observing the ease and comfort of their

Jeff

creator,

as well as producer.

on

described by

cally

Bud Fisher

(the reel includes several shots

of the caricaturist), they decide to turn out their

way, he did what he could to further this end. For instance, he organized art classes for after-hours studies, where the

In his extremely limited

animators could improve their skills by drawing from the live models which he supplied free of charge. This is something which Disney also did so

many

years

later.

.

.

along.

jeff films

entertaining cartoons. Their so

much Bud

Bowers

staff

reflecting

its

were snappy,

humor was not

Fisher's as that of the Barre-

— earthy

at

New York

More importantly,

production, which is a fizzle, and the failure which causes them to return to the fold. The idea is novel and the offering should fit in on any

program.

Everyone in the studio looked up Hurter, a Swiss artist

.

At best, very little time could be allotted to the story phase of the operation, since the most important thing was how much footage could be ground out every week. But he did what he could, and saw to it that there was at least some delineation of the action and plot before animation was begun instead of leaving the whole thing up to each animator to invent and improvise as he went

The mutt and

own of

times and ethnic,

origins.

the films revealed the

enthusiasm that went into their creation. To be sure, the young staff had no pretense about art, and turning out a new short every week took its toll. But the potential tedium was relieved by the freedom everyone had to experiment and try new ideas. In one famous short, sound your a, Jeff appeared to converse with the conductor of the orchestra

into animated cartoons.

good,

to Albert

who somehow "He was

drifted

the one

I. Klein. "He knew about fine heard of Van Gogh was

real artist there," says

was

trained in Europe; he

arts.

The

first

through him.

time

I

He was

a great admirer of the Heinrich Kley, the German graphic artist. His animation was realistic; whenever they needed something real, they gave it to Hurter." His most famous fine arts, particularly

accomplishment at the Mutt and Jeff studio was the animation of an American flag waving in the breeze; he studied the real thing and then reproduced it in meticulous detail. Hurter later became a renowned sketch artist at the Disney studio. In 1918 Raoul Barre left his studio and gave up animation at least for a while. There was friction between him and Bowers,

—

and stories circulated that Barre had actually gone crazy. Whatever the case, Bowers took control of the studio and supervised the stories, as Barre had done before him. "The most frequent word in his scripts was 'ad lib,'" I. Klein recalls. "'Mutt walks into a

THE SILENT ERA

scene ... ad lib' meaning that the animator should improvise some funny business at that point. In other words, the stories were only outlines of a general theme. The humor within the scenes depended on the individual animators." A talented cartoonist .

Bowers

.

.

provided thumbnail sketches

also

his animators to

tor

work from.

His reign as studio head was short. In

was

by Bud Fisher

such popular "stars" as Krazy Kat, Happy Hooligan, and the Katzenjammer Kids. It seemed to Hearst that animated counterparts could only increase their popularity and if he made a profit on the films themselves, so much the better. In a further corporate tie-in, these cartoons were limited to one third of a reel in length, so they could be released as part of Hearst's weekly newsreel.

—

to let

him produce mutt and jeff cartoons as an independent contractor. He opened a tiny studio in Mount Vernon, New York, and hired many animators who had worked at

As previously mentioned, Hearst hired Gregory LaCava and Frank Moser away from the Barre studio to head this new operation. The reason for this was simple: He needed someone with experience, and there was nowhere to turn except the few established animation studios. LaCava was a proficient

the Bronx shop; in late 1921 he decided to

cartoonist, but his real talent lay in the field

pursue other ventures and discontinued pro-

of

duction, only to resume three years later

try his

with a new setup in Astoria and a new contract with Bud Fisher. This time he was ousted by an animators' cooperative that negotiated with Fisher to do mutt and jeff, and Bowers faded from the animation scene

became one of the top directors in Hollywood; he is best remembered for the classic

1919 he

fired

for financial

improprieties, but he wasn't idle very long.

Less than one year

later,

he persuaded Fisher

forever.

During these adventures the former BarreBowers studio continued to operate, first under animator Dick Friel, and then with Burt Gillett in charge. After Bowers abandoned mutt and jeff in 1921, Friel continued its production under the banner of Jefferson Film Corporation. All

in

Horace

Archibald J. Mutt and Edgar were animated by more different more different places than any

all,

Jeff

people in

other characters in cartoon history.

Their

ongoing popularity in the funnies assured them a place on theater screens no matter

how

often

the

flow

of

production

was

interrupted.

Comic

strip characters

and raison

were the mainstay

d'etre of Hearst's International

Film Service, established in 1915. Hearst's King Features Syndicate owned the rights to

comedy. In the 1920s he

left

animation to and soon

luck in live-action films

comedy my man Godfrey. Frank Moser had no such ambitions, but he possessed a quality that was equally important in these early days. Fellow animator Bert Green called him "the most rapid animator in the game." Green added, "Moser literally shakes them out of a hat. I have seen Moser take a scenario of happy hooligan and in thirty days hand you a pile of between two and three thousand drawings that you couldn't jump over and live through it. Yes, and catch the 5:15 for Hastings 'nine times running.'" Raiding rival studios for talent was a way of life for the next twenty years; one could fit all the experienced animators in the United States into a subway car and still have seats left over. "There weren't any animators and that was the fact," declares Grim Natwick. "And nobody was developing animators; that's why Walt Disney started [doing that] later. I happened to be a functioning animator and there were periods when I'd be screwball

16

OF MICE AND MAGIC

on an average two weeks or so." Yet Natwick started out on the ground

He found it very hard to get do this; nobody knew how to animate. They wouldrcomef in and see somebody drawing a hundred drawings a day and it would frighten them. We knew each other well, and I had apparently shown a knack of drawing humorous drawings, so he persuaded me to try it for a couple of weeks. That lasted about fifty years. I was what they call a natural animator, and I don't know why; I have always attributed it to the fact that I was interested in athletics. I found that almost all the good animators were either

offered a job at another studio

try this thing?'

of every

artists to

floor of this business, just like everyone else. There were no animators with seniority in 1916 because the medium was brand new and everyone was still learning. The only "seniority" occurred when newspaper cartoonists of some repute moved into animation studios; the rest of the staff filled in with

young men, many in their teens, some of whom had been to art school and others who simply liked to draw. In Natwick's case, he and Gregory LaCava had gone to art school together in Chicago. While LaCava pursued the new motion-picture

medium, Natwick made

illustrating

sheet-music

a

good

covers.

living

When

Natwick moved from Chicago to New York, he looked up his old friend, who was now running the International studio at 729 Seventh Avenue. "I was having lunch with LaCava one day and he said, 'Why don't you

devotees of athletics or athletically inclined. That may not be so true now, because the kids come up through art school. In those days, I was about the only animator, even at the Disney studio, who had had several years of real, sincere, earnest art education." Among the younger element there were

those who had taken art courses, but once they found full-time employment at studios like Hearst's there was neither time nor incentive to continue such studies.

Krazy Kat and Ignatz Mouse in a scene from krazy kat, invalid (1916), animated by Leon Searl.

Some

of

uneducated cartoonists intimidated them as well. Shamus Culhane recalls that when he worked at Harrison and Gould studios in the 1920s, as an inker: "I was an oddball. In the first place, I brought books in amazing! Then, when I to read at lunch happened to mention that I was going to the Art Students League to take a course in etching,, one of the animators took me to one side and said, 'Don't learn all that shit, it will stiffen you up.' To quote him verbatim." the

older,

—

Mostly, Lantz,

it

later

was on-the-job to

training. Walter

be the creator of

Woody

Woodpecker, started at Hearst's at age sixteen and progressed from cameraman to inker and finally to animator. He explains: "I would take the old Charlie Chaplin films and project them one frame at a time, make a drawing over Chaplin's action, and flip the drawings to see how he moved. That's how

— THE SILENT ERA

most form

animate." This very became a mainstay courses many years

of us learned to

of "action analysis"

of Disney's studio art

Just as

"creator"

Bud Fisher was of his mutt and

the figurehead jeff

cartoons,

Hearst cartoonists like George Herriman, Rudolph Dirks, and Frederick Opper had no contact with the animators who brought their characters to

life.

At

this studio, the

animators did receive screen credit, though in such a way as to give the impression that the film

was

a "collaboration."

card read: "krazy kat

A sample

title

and ignatz mouse

—

—

at the circus A Cartoon By George Herriman"; then in smaller letters: "Animated by Leon Searl." Herriman's

brilliant comic strip suffered hands of the Hearst animators, who

were forced to simplify the complicated drawing style and all but eliminate backgrounds in order to turn out their cartoons on a production-line basis. The humor was somewhat diluted as well, the katzenjammer kids made the transition to motion pictures much better than krazy kat. Here the animators could concentrate on simple reproduction of the familiar characters and devise endless variations on the enduring theme of childhood mischief. Other adaptations included George McManus's bringing up father, Tad Dorgan's silk hat harry and tad's indoor sports, Walter Hoban's jerry on the job, and Jimmy Swinnerton's little jimmy. T. E. Powers's phables, perhaps the most unusual, were executed in the artist's stylishly simple fashion and permeated by his impish sense of humor. As various human foibles

of the

film frame.

Visually the Hearst cartoons were primi-

Gray tones were unheard of; characters and backgrounds were rendered in simple line drawings, animated and inked on paper. Movement was spare, dialogue (in comic

tive.

later.

at the

ment metaphorically from the bottom

are

illustrated,

Powers's miniature

Greek-chorus characters, the Joys (stick-figure females, with bright smiling faces and wide skirts) and the Glooms (with pointed caps, pointed noses, pointed beards) com-

strip balloons)

was

at

times overabundant,

and cinematic innovations were few. They were "living comic strips" in the truest sense, but without the graphic styling that made the better comics of the day so striking. Hearst closed his studio in July 1918, but continued to finance and license cartoon production with his newspaper characters. John Terry (Paul's brother, and an early experimenter with animation in his native San

opened a studio in New York's Greenwich Village, apparently with Hearst's backing, and hired most of the Hearst InterFrancisco)

—

staff LaCava, Nolan, Gillett, Natwick, Sharpsteen, Lantz, and Jack King to continue making phables, happy hooligan, bringing up father, and judge

national

rummy

cartoons.

In 1919 other films bearing the

name

Inter-

national Film Service were released by Bray studios,

and soon Bray was actually produc-

new

cartoons with such Hearst characters

ing

as Krazy Kat

according

to

and

Jerry.

This came about,

Bray, because Hearst

fringing on Bray's patents.

was

"We were

in-

going

sue him," he later explained. "Then 1 figured he was too big for us. He could tie us up in a knot; keep us on a string for ten to twelve years and run us ragged. So took over the distribution of his cartoons. But we found out they weren't successful. They were poorly done." Bray fared much better making new cartoons himself with the established characthe ters. At least one surviving krazy kat to

I

.

.

.

—

OF MICE AND MAGIC

Some

New

in a rare moment of recreation. Front row, left to right, Sammy Stimson, John Grim Natwick, unknown, Jack King, an office worker; back row, Ving Fuller, Joe ArmGuy Gaston, Frank Sherman, Clyde (Gerry) Geronomi, Bill Nolan, Walter Lantz, unknown.

top

George

Foster,

strong,

York animators

Stallings,

great cheese robbery (directed by Vernon "George" Stallings) shows tremendous improvement over the earlier krazys produced by Hearst. Not only is the film-making technique more sophisticated, but the story is clearly defined and well developed. In this episode, Ignatz Mouse steals some cheese;

—

only to discover that story

may seem,

it's

it's

Krazy! Basic as this

a far cry

parrying of dialogue that

from the

filled

so

static

many

ear-

that

krazy kat cartoons. If John R. Bray was particular about the quality of films he released, he had good reason. His studio had pioneered and developed some of the most sophisticated car-

knows is that an innocent party is being held by the cops. His conscience starts to bother him and soon guilt overtakes him

toons of the teens. Bray was the first successful cartoonist to become an even more successful cartoon pro-

the newspaand everything else

ducer. After the success of his colonel heeza liar, and the granting of three important patents, Bray set up shop and hired other cartoonists to animate for him. The

Krazy

is

accused of the

theft,

but

all

Ignatz

as

all

the objects in his house

per, the

bed

sheet,

—

become specters pointing accusing fingers at him. Finally he goes to bail out the poor sap,

lier

—

—

THE SILENT ERA

first

was

Hurd, who brought not only and imagination but his patent on

Earl

his talent

the use of eels to Bray's studio. Together they

Bray-Hurd Patent trust and from every studio that used their techniques. (Most of the New York studios in the 1920s animated on paper and avoided such tariffs, but in the early 1930s practically everyone used eels and paid Bray and Hurd for their use.) Hurd may be best known as the inventor of eels, but in the teens he made an equally significant contribution with his bobby bumps cartoons. The first of these were made for Universal in 1915, and perhaps their success led to Bray's production offer. They are among the most mature, most well-conformed

the

demanded

license fees

—

ceived cartoons of the silent era certainly the best work done in the mid- to late teens.

The

films use a full range of gray tones in

and backgrounds, with pleasing The animation, if not fluid, is workmanlike and functional. The characters Bobby Bumps and his dog Fido are likable as well and can be said to have personality derived more through dialogue, stories, and characters effect.

expressions than from any sophisticated animation, but personality just the same. Most important, however, is the sub-

facial

stance of the films, and this is where they leave the competition behind. Hurd's bobby bumps cartoons have a beginning, a middle,

and an end. They are well thought out, like a good comic strip, with clever story ideas and gags. Ingenious cinematic devices add to their appeal.

—

Example: bobby bumps before and after opens as Bobby finds a bottle in a garbage bin. The picture dissolves (an unusual technique to find in cartoons of this period) to a close-up

hair restorer.

showing the contents to be a tries it out on Fido, and

Bobby

the picture cuts to an posterior. Above the

iris

close-up of Fido's

iris

is

the headline

"What Bobby Expected," followed by

ani-

mation of hair growing on the dog. Then another headline announces, "What Came Up," and from the dog float the letters N-OT-H-I-N-G. The story proper has Bobby selling the bottle

of hair restorer to

his father,

who

imagines hair growing on his bald pate and is duped by Fido's scheme of having two dogs, one short-haired, the other long-, pretending to be the same dog before and after treatment. During the night, when Pop is asleep, Bobby and Fido glue feathers to his head. In the morning, the unamused father

punishes his son by letting his scalp-massaging machine spank the boy. The range of visual ideas in Hurd's repertoire is amazingly broad. In bobby bumps sets out to school, the youngster's attitude toward education is illustrated by showing him walking with oppressively oversized school books on his back; no dialogue is necessary to

Animator star in

make

Earl

the point. In

Hurd writes

a

bobby bumps

message

to his juvenile

bobby bumps puts a beanery on the bum (1918).

OF MICE AND MAGIC

PUTS A BEANERY ON THE BUM, Fido with a cat who calls him a going to make him eat those declares Fido as he dares the cat

gets into

"I'm words," to speak again. "You dirty cur," says the cat. Fido grabs the dialogue balloon, crumples it up,

a fight

cur.

and stuffs it down the cat's throat! The beanery cartoon is full of interaction with the unseen animator, a device one usually associates with Max Fleischer's later inkwell series. An artist's hand draws Bobby in silhouette, lying down. Bobby gets up and the animator says, "hat off," so he can ink in his hair, the rest of his features, and clothing. The rest of the cartoon maintains this playful banter, culminating in a deus ex machina finale, in which the animator responds to Bobby and Fido's cries for help by drawing a ladder, which they climb to escape from the clutches of an angry cook; the animator then erases the drawing so the chef cannot follow and hands Bobby his inkwell, so Bobby can douse his adversary. Earl Hurd's cartoons set a standard that was difficult for his colleagues to match.

Among

the other cartoonists to join

him

at

were Leighton Budd, who created lunyland; F. M. Follett, known for his newspaper cartoons* Private Conscience and The See-See Kid, who animated the quacky doodles family; and Wallace Carlson, whose creations included dreamy dud, otto luck, and Goodrich dirt, which owed a lot to bobby bumps in format and design. But Bray's most important finds were Max Fleischer, Paul Terry, and Walter Lantz. All three made their mark at Bray and went on Bray's studio

to

open With

their

own

successful studios.

kind of talent on hand, Bray was able to accept a commitment for one cartoon a week, which appeared as the final portion of the paramount-bray pictograph, a screen magazine (like Hearst's) with several live-action segments per issue. Each artist had one month to complete his cartoon, and the deadlines were staggered so that one would be ready every week. When one of these key cartoonists left the studio (as Fleischer and Terry did during World War I), it was necessary to find an immediate replacement to maintain the regular output. this

was

Bray's operation

modern cartoon thirty or forty

.

.

essentially that of a

"We had about working in our stu1972. "We worked out a

studio. .

artists

dio," he recalled in

system of the original cartoonist laying out Then another fellow would ink in certain parts of it. Then another girl or boy would put on color on the back of the picture. Of course, it was fairly crude when we started in. But it got more perfect, until finally it got as good, I guess, as most of the cartoons you see. ..." the thing in pencil.

.

.

.

Bray started another less formal tradition when he graduated from the

in animation

drawing board to the executive office. After several colonel heeza liar cartoons in 1914 and 1915 (which modestly credited him as "the world's greatest motion picture cartoonist"), he stopped drawing, in order to supervise his rapidly expanding business. A commitment with Paramount for the weekly pictographs in 1916 necessitated live-action filming, while the arrival in 1917 of enthal, a mechanical draftsman,

*Some newspaper

cartoonists adapted to the rigors of

animation, while others didn't. Carl Anderson animated Bray's police dog series, but enjoyed greater success with his Henry comic strip. Louis Glackens, brother of the well-known artist William Glackens, tried his hand at animation for a short time, as did editorial cartoonist

"Vet" Anderson.

Bray's

first

instructional

World War I. Bray was a man

films

J.

F.

Lev-

prompted for

use in

who was always ready to try something new. When magazine of vision

illustrator C. Allen Gilbert

a proposal for

making

came to him with combining sil-

films

— THE SILENT ERA

animation and live action, Bray sponsored him in the short-lived experiment. When he heard about a process called Brewster Color, he tried it out in one short (the debut of thomas cat, 1920), but didn't use it again because the double-emulsion houette

was

film

He

too susceptible to scratches.

also sponsored another experiment,

which was described by Wid's Daily on

November Over

the Rialto they

at

recently

30, 1919:

showed an unusual

— an animated cartoon

of the Bray organization senfield

short

idea of Leventhal

showing Dr. (Hugo) Rie-

leading his orchestra and directing a

The orchestra was synchronized perfectly made a big hit when run off. Whether or not the Doctor is well known enough outside of

waltz.

and

it

New

York to play the reel is questionable, but if comes down to that you needn't run it as a Riesenfield stunt, but put the name of your own musical director to it and let it ride it

.

Bray's biggest

move was

instructional films.

J.

.

.

into the field of

Leventhal impressed animation, and this set

F.

Bray with his realistic the producer onto a new course, that of pioneering the largely untapped educational film market. Bray developed the prototype for filmstrips

16mm

and

released

filmstrip projectors;

when

was

introduced, he the entire backlog of live-action

safety

film

from his paramount (and later goldwyn) pictographs with great success. footage

Bray's educational film division prospered

long after the theatrical business failed, and the studio bearing his name is still going strong today.

When

Bray turned his attention to these he looked for someone to supervise the continuing production of cartoons for theaters. The task fell to George

new

pursuits,

Stallings,

name

who

at this

of Vernon.

A

time was using the

first

talented animator, Stall-

ings

joined

the

period. Paul Terry

dio after World

studio

had

War

I.

during

started his

Max

a

Fleischer

1921, taking his very popular

fallow

own

stu-

left

in

out of the

inkwell cartoons with him, while Earl Hurd moved to Paramount with bobby bumps. Milt Gross, on the verge of great success as a newspaper cartoonist, made some films for Bray in 1920 (including one typical reel called frenchy discovers America), but left after a very short time. New ideas were scarce; krazy kat and jerry on the job were losing steam, and, for want of a better idea, colonel heeza liar was taken out of mothballs. Then Stallings was replaced by an ambitious young animator named Walter Lantz. Lantz was full of fresh ideas, and the studio's product improved. His dinky doodles, combining live action and animation, rekindled the kind of interest that Fleischer's out of the inkwell series had evoked several years Lantz's follow-ups unnatural history, and hot dog cartoons with Pete the Pup met with similar success. Also on the Bray staff at this time was a nucleus of animators who just ten years later would help shape the destiny of the Walt Disney studio: Jack King, David Hand, Clyde "Gerry" Geronimi, and, in the educational division, Cy Young and Alec Geiss. before.

—

Another young man who started his animation career with Bray in the 1920s was Shamus Culhane, who recalls some of the mundane but formidable problems at that time: "The eels were a disaster. In the first place, they were nitrate. It was phenomenal how people handled those damn things. Why we weren't blown up and burned to hell, I don't know." No one ever gave a second thought to dangling a cigarette over his work even though the celluloids were highly flammable. "The biggest problem was the paint," he continues. "You would work all day and fin-

—

—

—

OF MICE AND MAGIC

ish a shot, with a pile of

drawings you'd been working on, eels all done. All of a sudden, as the weather changes here, you'd get up one morning and it would be blazing hot. I'd run down to the studio and everything was stuck to the next drawing. Or in the wintime they'd turn the heat off in the build-

ter

Sunday and it would be come in, in the morning, you'd take some eels and all the paint would fall on the table. It would crack. It looked terrible and it had to be scraped off and done all over again. We did all kinds of things, like trying to put cornstarch on the back to see if it would absorb the moisture. Sometimes it did, but mostly it didn't. It was a pain in the ass; you got cornstarch all over yourself and the drawings. What a way to ing for Saturday and

very, very cold. You'd

work." But, as

them's

Jimmy Durante would have

the

conditions

that

said,

prevailed

—

at

when

Bray suddenly closed his animation studio. The market for cartoons was shaky, and after losing his distribution deal with Goldwyn, the income level dropped. Bray continued making educational films, but the theatrical cartoon staff looked elsewhere for work. least until 1927,

Bray's

was

the last of the teens' three

major studios to close; Hearst's International Film Service had not lasted the decade, nor had Barre's, although his successors continued to run that shop into the early 1920s. It was Fleischer and Terry, Bray alumni, who headed New York's most successful anima-

America. As assistant to the popular William F. Marriner, he inherited that cartoonist's comic strips when Marriner died in a 1914 fire. Sullivan 'subsequently turned one of them, Sambo and his Funny Noises, into an animated cartoon series called sammy (or sammie) johnsin in 1916. Sullivan photographed his

work

Universal studio in Fort Lee,

New

for

Messmer's active duty in World War

Their association ran deeper than mere collaboration, however.

more responsibility for the films, until Messmer was doing all the work, with the help of a few assistants. Sullivan never drew a line again, but took

industry for the rest of the silent film era.

born in Australia, had led a coland checkered life before finding steady employment as a newspaper cartoonist in Sullivan,

orful

all

the credit for Messmer's

work. Besides sammie johnsin, Sullivan proa series of Charlie Chaplin animated cartoons, which Messmer recalls the comedian enjoyed. This series gave Messmer the

duced

opportunity to study Chaplin's pantomime and body movements, which profoundly affected his future work. Another Sullivan series was boomer bill. But Messmer is proudest of a onetime short called 20,000 laughs under the sea, inspired by Universal's release of a feature film based on the Jules

Verne

story.

In 1919 John R. Bray release his films through

Paramount

to

As Messmer grew him

increasingly proficient, Sullivan gave

zine, with

many years

1,

the two were together until Sullivan's death.

and who survived

for

the

where he met a young artist named Otto Messmer who had just started learning the rudiments of animation. Messmer went to work for Sullivan in New York, and, except

come. They were joined by another cartoonist, Pat Sullivan, to form a new triumvirate that dominated the cartoon

tion studios in the 1920s,

at

Jersey,

to create its

Paramount to Goldwyn, forcing own screen magaleft

a weekly animated feature. A group of animators under the leadership of Paul Terry turned out most of the weekly entries, but Paramount producer John King also called on Pat Sullivan for contributions. Messmer recalls an important Otto moment in animation history: "The studio

—

4

THE SILENT ERA

(•

4"

t

"i*

4*

4* '' 4* 4*

. . f *H**4* 4" 4"4"

The

+++++++++ ++H

+ *fr

4

1

4* 4"

"fr

4*

4^'

4'^^4* + 4*4, 4' 4*

1

4*

+ 4" 4

Five Senses as Interpreted by "FELIX"

HEAPING

SEEING

TASTING

SMELLING

FEELING

'

SINGLE REEL NOVELTY

PAT SULLIVAN

220

+ 4" 4* 4" "r *i*"4" 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4" 4* 4* i' 4" • 1 t + 4 + +~4* 4

H-+ ++++++++++++++++

shows the

earliest

me

my

did a quick one

at

home.

I

to

do one

in

showing a black cat being outwitted by a mouse. I used plenty of picture gags. Paramount liked it and signed it up for their paramount screen magazine. It made a hit with the public. I wrote and animated it alone with studio assistants. It grew in popularity, and as the demand became more urgent, Sullivan took on more animators, at various times, to help."

The name

who

Felix

was coined by John King,

making a lot of outlines, and solid black moves better." As Messmer remembers it, the name of the first episode in 1919 was feline follies; and the second, after which Felix was officially named, was musical mews. The design of the character was quite different saves

then from the one that evolved in later years. John Canemaker has described this early version as looking like an "angular dog."

Angular

enough

or

not,

Felix

for Sullivan to think

was

New York

+ + +-M-++++++++++++++++++++ +++++++++++ •!-:--:••:•!•

+

-:-•;-•;••;

out on his own. At the end of 1921 he left Paramount and signed a deal with M. J. (Margaret) Winkler, who would distribute the films worldwide. Sullivan committed himself to a monthly schedule, and the first one-reel subject, felix saves the day,

appeared at the beginning of 1922. Oddly enough, this remains Messmer's favorite film from the series, perhaps not so much for its story line (in which Felix is a lucky mascot for the New York Yankees) but for the fact that

liked the contrast of "felix," for felicity,

with the traditional superstition about black cats. Messmer had made Felix black because "it

WINKLER

design of Felix the Cat.

being busy, Sullivan asked spare time,

J.

West 42nd Street,

H- + + + + + + + .^ + + + + + + v + + + + + + + + + + + + + + > + + + + + + + + + +

1

1921 trade advertisement

Bat SuVUwiTV_6 T^b.p

WORLDS RIGHTS

M.

Animated by

A

i

successful

about branching

he

made

Sullivan to

it

was

virtually alone. a wily

work promoting

showman, and he

his character.

set

He soon

discovered that Felix was even more popular in England than in the United States, and his fame grew with each passing year. Felix merchandise started to appear, and Sullivan (like

Disney a decade later) reaped considerable rewards from the licensing of his character. Later a comic strip was launched, which

Messmer drew for many years. As production continued on the series, Messmer made an important discovery: "I found that I could get as big a laugh with a little gesture— a wink or a twist of the tail as I could with gags." This was the key to

24

OF MICE AND MAGIC

The

Felix's success.

stories

were generally

good, and the gags quite ingenious, but

was %

it

the development of a distinctive person-

ality that

made

Felix the greatest cartoon star

of the silent era. Felix

his

had

way out

a

mind, and he used it to think tough spot. From this foun-

of a

dation came the trademarks of this series: Felix's pensive walk, with head down in a

hands clasped behind his back, and his unique gift for turning his tail into any implement necessary at the moment an oar, a baseball bat, thoughtful

position

and

—

hook, a telescope. This talent was complemented by Felix's frequent excursions into unreality: He could jump into a telephone and squeeze himself through the wires; cross over a chasm on a "bridge" of question marks that emanated from his head; disguise himself as a suitcase in order a fishing

Hollywood, he

tours the

movie studios and

impress a producer by imitating Chaplin, using his tail as a cane. Whom should he bump into but Chaplin himself, who snarls, "Stealing my stuff, eh?" Felix's quick-wittedness impelled Messto

tries

mer

to find consistently clever ideas for sto-

and gags. Anything less would have been unworthy of the character a sure sign that Felix's personality had taken root. If the episode with Chaplin, from 1923, sounds saucy, consider later entries in which we see Felix receiving his paycheck from Pat Sullivan studios (whys and otherwise), taking his children to the movies only to find "Daddy" on-screen (flim flam films), animator back his talking to or ries

—

(COMICALAMITIES).

Messmer's

retelling of

what

lay

behind the

Chaplin of cartoon characters. Mark Langer has written: "Like Chaplin, Felix is a loner in a hostile or at best indifferent world, who combines resourcefulness and a touch of viciousness in order to survive." In felix in

disarmingly simple: "I put emphasis on personality in Felix, eye motion and facial expressions, and started each cartoon with a theme to get the audience interbacked by ested." That simple credo unlimited imagination kept Felix going through several hundred adventures, as Sullivan upped his output from twelve to

his prime: an original animation drawing, paper, from a 1926 short.

twenty-six cartoons a year. By this time Otto Messmer had some help. While he still functioned as a one-man

and so was sometimes

to take a free trip,

Felix

Felix

in

inked on

on. called the Charlie

formula

Felix

is

—

band

—

—

writing, directing, and partially animating every film he was joined in 1923 by Bill Nolan, whom he characterizes as "a super animator who added a lot of class to the Felix films." Nolan's legendary speed

was

—

also a great asset.

the others who joined the tiny Sullivan studio at this time were Harold (Hal) Walker, Dana Parker, and a trio of young men who rose from the lowly position

Among

of "blackeners" (filling in Felix's outline) to

become animators in the 1930s: Al Eugster, Rudy Zamora, and George Cannata.

When

Nolan

left to

produce his

own

car-

THE SILENT ERA

Pat Sullivan (far left) poses as an animator for this 1925 publicity photo. To his right are the men who really made the Felix cartoons: Otto Messmer, Raoul Barre, Dana Parker, Hal Walker, A] Eugster, Jack Boyle, George Cannata, Tom Byrne, and cameraman Alfred Thurber. This was the entire staff of the studio!

toons

with

krazy kat

in

1925,

he was

replaced by one of Messmer's idols, Raoul Barre.

"He was

had been out

a genius in animation,

of the

game

for a

and

few years,

doing oil paintings and great art posters for an advertising agency," Messmer recalls. "It was a thrill to have this man work with me on felix. He had a great flair for gags and tricky effects which enriched the stories I outlined for Felix. I missed him when he left, around 1927." Barre had created much of the animatedcartoon vocabulary in his earliest films of the teens. Now he returned to his metier and

some wonderful ideas to the Andre Martin cites the memorable "drunken flowers" in two lip time and the distorting movie lens in felix busts a bubble as two sequences devised by Barre. The Felix cartoons of the late 1920s are remarkably sophisticated, in humor and in contributed series.

film technique. Despite the

ing no voice, Felix

is

handicap of hav-

as recognizable

and

rounded

a personality as any later cartoon

his

improved design not only makes

star;

him more appealing, but

the enlarged white

area around the eyes and his expressions

all

mouth showcases

the better.

OF MICE AND MAGIC

Max and Dave

some between Koko the Clown and the animator at his drawing board, and Fleischer engineered

clever interaction

Chuck Jones made a definitive statement on the ephemeral nature of cartoon characters in his duck amuck but none of these cartoons can overshadow the brilliance of Felix's comical amities, made in 1928. Here Felix's creator forgets to blacken him in, causing Felix to fend for himself and use shoe polish. When the director tries to end

years later

—

movie by closing in the iris, Felix stops midmotion and declares, "This picture isn't over by a long shot." For his own finale, Felix takes an eraser and pencil to change the face of a feminine cat from homely to beautiful. Expecting a big romance to start, he's astonished when she suddenly snubs him. But unlike his hero the

the circle in

Careening wildly through three dimensions of space or even four or five for all I know skating on the furthest ecjge of plausibility, the little black cartoon cat is undismayed by any of the facts of life which might worry a more substantial feline of fur and claws. Gaily, impertinently, he chins

—

himself on the vacant air, hoisting himself into a world of innumerable and elastic dimensions, and limitless possibilities, in which every tree and stone has not only a potential life but a complete

emotions.

set of

Cartoons became more elaborate in the to come with color, sound, and increasingly sophisticated animation. But

—

years

few,

if

Felix.

to

Sadly, Felix did not survive the transition sound. Pat Sullivan was unimpressed with

the

down. He grabs the cartoon

didn't

and

tears her

any, later film makers were able to

recapture the simple spark and buoyancy of

Charlie Chaplin, Felix doesn't take this lying girl

—

possibilities

want

of

talking

to invest the

pictures

and

money

time or

to

The fluidity and imagination of these cartoons did not go entirely unnoticed. In 1929 Creighton Peet sang their praises in The New

changeover. As a result, Felix declined in popularity and within a year was obsolete. Sullivan's alcoholism and failing health after the accidental death of his wife

Republic:

made

make

up!

When

it

comes

to

"pure cinema," "visual flow,"

the

it difficult to discuss any serious business matters, and when he died in 1933 his affairs were so disorganized that neither

"graphic representation," "the freedom of the cinematic medium," and all the other things

Messmer nor anyone

learned foreign cinema enthusiasts talk about, nothing that Jannings or Lubitsch or Murnau or

Beuren studio in 1935, but

Greta Garbo or Rin Tin Tin can do has more than a roll of celluloid's chance in Hell beside Felix Cat

character

and the other animated cartoons.

Unhampered by any such

.

.

"free."

medium And this

classical limitations as

ever discovered which in spite of the fact that

is really it is

only

an eight-minute tidbit thrown in at the end of a audience is being the love drama while changed. .

.

.

was able

to carry

Van

few and the the comic pages after just a

films this series expired as well,

was

relegated to

for the next twenty-five years.

.

dramatic unities, or even such customary necessities as the laws of gravity, common sense, and possibility, the animated drawing is the only artistic

else

on. Felix enjoyed a brief revival at the

Otto Messmer divorced himself from animation when the Sullivan studio folded, returning briefly in the mid- 1940s to do some story

work

for

Famous

Studios.

It

was not

he received official recognition for his pioneering work with Felix, and in the ensuing years various institutions and film enthusiasts have tried to make up for the years of neglect by paying homage to this until 1967 that

— THE SILENT ERA

masterful creator of cartoon

As

the

for

other silent-film

animators,

world began to change in the late 1920s. one thing, there was a new name to For reckon with, not in New York but in California: Walt Disney. He and most of his staff came from Kansas City, where their major their

influence

was Paul

is particularly true in the Broadway houses and mostly because of the work of the orchestra. But even with an organ and a few "effects," just as good results can be obtained.

This

life.

Terry's aesop's fables,

If

you don't overwork

it,

the old "groan" stuff,

pulled in synchronism with the action of the cartoon, helps mightily. of other traps like the

And

then they use all sorts buzzing of mosquitoes, the

was from Edward handbook on animation. Yet they were forging a new, liquid style of cartooning that had some New Yorkers sitting up and taking notice. Walter Lantz and Bill Nolan set up shop in California, and this

willunous

began a gradual migration west for much of the animation industry. For the first time young people recruited to work in this field would come from outside the world of New York newspapers. Then Disney prodded his competitors into production of talking pictures with steamboat willie, the landmark sound cartoon with Mickey Mouse. Many of the New Yorkers would have been content to release their silent films with music-and-effects sound tracks, as they did in 1929, but by 1930 there was no question that sound was vital to the

ney achieved in steamboat willie and abandoned just as quickly to seek more sophisticated and persuasive use of sound and music. Looking back at cartoons produced in the teens and twenties, one greatly regrets that animators were unable, or unwilling, to retain the visual virtuosity that marked their best endeavors. Earl Hurd, Otto Messmer, and the Fleischers flirted with surrealism and the fourth dimension not through any artistic credo but from the simple necessity of

continuation of cartoon production.

manner and exploring new ways of doing so for humorous effect. In 1976 New York Times critic Vincent Canby reviewed a program of

and

their only instruction

Lutz's 1920

To some minds, it rescued animation from slow death. "Without sound," says Dick Huemer, "animated cartoons in my estimation would have gone the way of the dino-

a

saur and the trolley car."

Sound opened new

animated cartoon and imposed discipline where once had been chaos. Some motion picture people considered sound an important adjunct to cartoons long before the sound track itself was a reality.

vistas to the

Industry Boswell wrote in 1919:

F.

C.

"Wid" Gunning

some of New York's biggest houses these cartoon subjects often get more laughs proportionate to their length than comedies of a different type.

In

laughter

of

the

willun,

chicken

squawks and all that sort of thing. This helps very much, as has been found by comparing this manner of running the cartoon with the usual stunt of "just It

running

was

it."

precisely this kind of effect that Dis-

—

expressing

themselves

in

purely visual

a

Felix the Cat cartoons and dealt with this very matter. He wrote that "the Messmer backgrounds are simple to the point of being philosophic statements (one tree is all trees, ." and that one house is all houses, etc.) in these films "the freedom of the form looks almost avant-garde." How true, and how sad that animators, in .

their desire to

.

"improve" and expand the

medium, dismissed these qualities as limitations imposed by silence instead of seeing them as virtues that could have been enhanced by sound. With the addition of

OF MICE AND MAGIC

and refined drawing techwas thought atavistic and unnectoy with space and dimension, and

and

sound,

color,

tion,

niques,

it

technical advances to the field.

essary to

breathe effect.

life

into inanimate objects for comic

These trends lasted a few years in the

1930s and then disappeared.

No

one mourned the passing of the silent Sound brought increased produc-

cartoon.

greater

prosperity,

artistic

and

But the cartoto

ALL BOO"/ PAIZTC- EVEkl "TAIcE* IW

A

SHOW- MAKE ONE

KJECK ATTACHES DO NOT STRETCH Detail from a

IT

AWV

model sheet

of

MOftE THA>^

Goofy from

WtCKTAA/

1937.

V Walt Disney

animators, in-betweeners, and cleanup men; Walt realized that it was easy to find people who could draw, but it was rare to find someone who could animate. So he left the animation the working out of movement,

—

position,

and

personality

— to

men

like

Fergy, and then turned over those rough

drawings to assistants who could clean them up and fill in the detail that the animator had only indicated. This eventually became standard procedure at all studios, but Fergy's

drawings provided his assistants. Jack

HIGHen THAN THE OTHETX TO GK« A "GOOFy" LOOK

UNOErl SIDE OF HEAD

"TO

a

unique challenge

Hannah

for

started out as an

Productions.

in-betweener and assistant

Ferguson, and in-between those (drawings), oh boy!" Walt knew that the additional labor involved in cleaning up after Fergy was worthwhile, not only because he was so good, but because he

he

recalls,

to

"When you had

worked so fast. It was Ferguson who

first

to

animated the

bloodhound in the Mouse cartoon the chain

character of Pluto as a

1930 Mickey gang. While it took time for Pluto's character to evolve, as he became Mickey's playful pet, it was Ferguson who immediately under-

OF MICE AND MAGIC

on ice skates (on ice), so much depended on the building up of the situation and the pauses for Pluto to think about different ways of getting rid df the flypaper or getting up on his feet on the ice. Good expressions were necessary in these spots to build the gag or situation to a climax. To arrive at the footage needed for such spots,

well as Pluto

as well as the follow-up in action, the ani-

mator has

_____

Two

—

^

animation drawings of Pluto from pantry pirate Walt Disney Productions.

(1941).

©

stood_the importance of giving the character a

mind

if

he was

personality.

He

to

succeed as a pantomime

realized that facial expres-

to feel the situation himself."

Fred Moore joined the studio in 1930 when he was eighteen years old. He too had a flair for personality animation that Walt soon recognized, and in the mid-1930s he was the man in charge of Mickey Mouse. At a time when Mickey's thunder was being stolen by other characters, Moore redesigned him to give him more flexibility and a modern facial styling. According to Moore, "In some pictures he has a touch of Fred Astaire; in others of Charlie Chaplin; and some of Douglas Fairbanks, but in all of these there should be some of the young boy." Nobody captured this feeling better than Moore. Goofy began life in the early 1930s as a stringbean character called Dippy Dawg. He had a silly laugh, provided by Pinto Colvig, and a silly manner to match. But he never came into focus as a star personality until Art Babbitt set to

work on him. Near the end

1935 Babbitt wrote, "In

of

my opinion the Goof,

been a weak cartoon character

sions were meaningless unless there were

hitherto, has

thought processes behind them. No matter how precise and organized the studio became, Fergy maintained that animation was basically an instinctive art. In the case of Pluto he felt it was almost impossible to preplan the timing of a given scene. "It is hard to anticipate the necessary feeling in certain spots where expressions will be used," he wrote. "This sometimes means it will be necessary to add footage when such spots are reached in animation. For example, in the flypaper sequence (playful pluto) as

because both his physical and mental make-

up were

indefinite

and intangible

.

.

.

the

only characteristic which formerly identified

with him was his voice. No effort was to endow him with appropriate business to do, a set of mannerisms or a mental itself

made

attitude.

.

.

.

"Think of the Goof as

a

composite of an Good Samar-

everlasting optimist, a gullible itan, a half-wit

.

.

.

and

a hick.

He

is

jointed and gangly, but not rubbery.

move fast if he has

to,

loose-

He

can but would rather avoid

WALT DISNEY

any overexertion, so he takes what seems the easiest way. He is a philosopher of the barber shop variety. No matter what happens, he accepts it finally as being for the best or at least amusing. He very seldom, if ever, reaches his objective or completes what he .

.

.

has started." Babbitt, like his colleagues,

mined

deter-

also

a definite set of physical characteris-

the Goof: "His posture is nil. His back arches the wrong way and his little stomach protrudes. His head, stomach, and knees lead his body. His neck is quite long and scrawny. His knees sag and his feet are large and flat. He walks on his heels and his toes turn up. His shoulders are narrow and slope rapidly, giving the upper part of his

tics for

body

a thinness and making his arms seem long and heavy, though actually not drawn

way. His hands are very sensitive and expressive and though his gestures are broad, they should still reflect the gentleman. His shoes and feet are not the traditional cartoon dough feet. His arches collapsed long ago and his shoes should have that

Donald was unique in that his voice preceded the creation of the character. Disney had heard Clarence Nash reciting "Mary Had a Little Lamb" as a flustered duck on a Los Angeles radio show and recognized the cartoon potential for such a voice. Donald made his debut as a supporting character in the WISE LITTLE HEN, One of the SILLY SYMPHONIES series, and then was showcased in orphans' benefit, in which he attempted to do his recitation before a jeering audience of mischievous mice-children. Donald's screen personality was largely the creation of animator Dick Lundy, who recalls working on the orphans' benefit: "I listened to the dialogue track and decided that he was an ego show-off. If anything crossed him he got mad and blew his top. For this had him lean forward, chin out, arm straight out and fisted. The other arm, with fist, was swinging back and forth. His one foot was out straight, heel on floor, the other foot under him as he hopped up and I

down, quacking. This

very definite character."

No group

In 1935

of animators ever

knew

their

a

one of The audience always

short-subject

come and

star

for

rate

symbol

of the

plays true to his

that

own

likes

him, provided he

character. His best fea-

tures are his cocky, show-off, boastful atti-

tude that turns to anger as soon as he is his typical angry gestures with which the audience is familiar, especially his fighting pose and his peculiar quacking

crossed;

voice and threats

when

angry. big kick out of imposing other people or annoying them; but

"The Duck gets

twenty

will always be the corpoDisney organization. But, in truth, Mickey's death knell was sounded in 1934, in the form of a squawk. The squawk belonged to Clarence Nash, and the character who voiced it was Donald Duck.

years to

Duck

"Donald has developed into the most interesting screen comics.

was not without its drawbacks and probAs characters like Pluto and Goofy ripened into maturity, older one-dimensional creations like Horace Horsecollar and Clarabelle Cow had to be retired. They offered no potential for development and looked archaic alongside the new, full-bodied Disney stars. There was also the ongoing dilemma of what to do with Mickey Mouse. Mickey a

fairly vio-

animator Fred Spencer composed

read, in part,

remained

was

character analysis of Donald

characters as well as Disney's did, but this

lems.

action

lent for that time."

on

immediately

loses

tables are turned.

'dish

it

a

out' but

his

temper when the he can

In other words,

he can't 'take

it.'"

was an immediate sensation with audiences, which Donald's

aggressive

character

50

OF MICE AND MAGIC

mouse? That was the problem. DonCow, and all the rest were drawn to scale. They were believable because »they were of a relative size. Then along comes a mouse as big as they are and it stopped working."

then had seen only happy-go-lucky, mild-mannered characters in starring roles. Even in the band concert, in which the animation of Mickey Mouse was superbly expressive, Donald managed to steal the show with his bombastic personality. Donald's overnight success, coupled with the development of Goofy and Pluto, made it clear that Mickey Mouse's days as a solo star were numbered. Competition from other characters was

foot- tall

until

ald Duck, Goofy, Pluto, Clarabelle

"There's another subliminal thing that probably contributed to the demise of Mickey," he continued. "Whereas we were drawing in the flying mouse, for instance, ears that really turned in perspective, Mickey had these round bowling balls up there, and no matter how you turned him, they would keep their shape. This is another thing that might have contributed to questioning his reality. As our pictures got more 'real' and

not the only reason for Mickey's decline. feels that there were other subtle factors at work. "The more we got into reality, the more Mickey became an abstrac-

Ward Kimball

he told animation historian Mike Bar"In the old days of cartooning the characters didn't have much relationship to reality. You could put almost anything into animation and the public accepted it. But who ever heard of a fourtion,"

the stories

rier in the early 1970s.

One of Mickey Mouse's most ambitious short subjects, the brave little tailor (1938). Walt Disney

©

Productions.

,J

with his

more complicated,

size,

his ears, along contributed to the demise of

Mickey Mouse." Walt Disney had no intention of retiring Mickey at this time. Mickey was, after all, a worldwide celebrity, a merchandising kingpin, and the cornerstone of Disney's g