Private Jet to/from Biggin Hill Airport (EGKB, BQH)

Private jets heading to London can choose to arrive/depart using Biggin Hill Airport (IATA: BQH, ICAO: EGKB), a dedicated business aviation airport in the London Borough of Bromley, located 14 miles (22 km) southeast of Central London and West End.

(BQH) Biggin Hill specializes in general and executive aviation, serving everything small, private turboprops to mid-size and larger jets — there are no scheduled commercial flights at the airport and two private terminals are on-site, making it a popular choice for business jets flying to London.

Clients arriving in London via private jet charter using Biggin Hill will benefit from their award-winning VIP handling with your choice of two FBOs. From here, you’ll have easy access to the M25 motorway, and Central London is only a 45-50 minute drive — or if you prefer, only 6 minutes via private helicopter transfer to the (EGLW) London Heliport.

Our charter brokers have access to thousands of private jets, turboprops, and helicopters for your flight at a moment’s notice, and all of the aircraft we arrange are operated by FAA part 135 and 121 (or foreign equivalent) certified air carriers that meet and/or exceed our safety standards. Already own a private/corporate jet and need an ASAP supplemental lift? We can arrange your business jet in as little as 4-6 hours, sometimes less.

We’re available 24-hours a day for all of your private aviation needs. Contact us or give us a call at 1-888-987-5387 and hire a private jet to London Biggin Hill (BQH) with Air Charter Advisors.

Map with ID 9 not found

Airport Information

IATA

BQH

ICAO

EGKB

FBO Service

Biggin Hill Executive Handling | Signature Flight Support

Customs & Immigration Tel: +44 1959 578 527 | Tel: +44 1959 578 527

http://www.bigginhillairport.com/airport-information/border-control/

Coordinates

51°19′51″N 000°01′57″E

Website

http://www.bigginhillairport.com/

Time Zone

UTC+0

Hours of Operation

06:30 – 23:00 LT Mon-Fri, 08:00 – 22:00 Sat-Sun & Public Holidays (O/T O/R)

Runway Details

03/21

5,971 feet | 1,820 m | Tarmac

11/29

2,585 feet | 788 m | Asphalt

Private Flights to Biggin Hill Airport (BQH)

Farnborough | Gatwick | Heathrow | London City | London Heliport | Luton | Southend | Stansted

Biggin Hill is a preferred airport for many executive and leisure jet passengers, registering nearly 50,000 aircraft movements annually. The airport formerly served as RAF Biggin Hill, and played an important role during World War II — the Royal Air Force still operates out of a small enclave at the airport, and retains its designation.

The airport also played an important role in the album art for Pink Floyd’s 1969 album “Ummagumma“, where it’s runway is the setting for the back cover photo.

Facilities

(EGKB, BQH) Biggin Hill offers two runways for your charter flight, aligned roughly north-south and east-west, intersecting in an L shaped configuration.

The longer north-south oriented runway (03/21) measures 5,971 feet in length and is equipped with an Instrument Landing System, accommodating larger aircraft, up to the size of a Boeing 737/Airbus A320 — despite the ban on commercial service, many of these large business jets still frequent the airport via business aviation and corporate shuttle flights.

Turboprops and piston aircraft are suitable for Runway 11/29, which measures 2,585 feet long. ATC services are provided by Thames Radar at the London Terminal Control Centre, while procedural approach and VFR ATC services are provided by the airport itself. The airport’s passenger terminal is located on the A233 road, which is where international passengers will find customs & immigration.

Helicopters are available for charter on-site, and exclusive flights to NetJets London Heliport via twin-engine turbo helicopters take only 6 minutes. Rail connections are also available, and typically take around 15 minutes to arrive at the city center. By road, it’s between 45-60 minutes.

Private Terminal

There are two FBO’s available — BHA Executive Handling and Signature Flight Support — where business and leisure jet passengers can enjoy discrete, efficient arrivals and a variety of luxury services; there were three private terminals to choose from, but Rizon Jet abandoned its luxury FBO hanger at Biggin Hill in 2016.

Aircraft Options | Charter Flights to Biggin Hill

Air Charter Advisors isn’t limited by fleet or location — or global network of certified operators gives clients access to thousands of private jets and turboprops based in London, or wherever you’re flying from around the world.

Our team can provide you with a list of aircraft options based on the goals and budget of your flight to/from (EGKB) London Biggin Hill, allowing you to choose between cost-effective aircraft, a comfortable, stylish jet, or the most luxurious, lavish airliner available.

Check out our Aircraft Gallery for more details on all of the aircraft available for your trip — if you don’t see your preferred aircraft listed below, speak to one of our brokers and they will locate one for you.

Request a Quote | Private Jet to (BQH) Biggin Hill Airport