“The Midwich Cuckoos”, the original novel that inspired Wolf Rilla’s Village of the Damned (1960) and John Carpenter’s 1995 horror film of the same name, is being adapted once again, this time as a series.

David Farr, the British writer behind “The Night Manager” and “Hanna”, is developing an eight-part adaptation of John Wyndham’s sci-fi novel for Comcast-owned European broadcaster Sky, Deadline reports.

“Wyndham’s 1957 story centers on the sleepy English village of Midwich, where a strange sequence of events culminates in the community’s women falling pregnant with alien children with glowing eyes and otherworldly powers.”

The TV remake is housed at ITV Studios-backed Route 24, which is run by Arlington Road producer Marc Samuelson, and Snowed-In Productions, the sister company of Bronte Film and Television, which produces J.K Rowling dramas including The Casual Vacancy and Strike.

ALSO READ: A Definitive Ranking of John Carpenter’s Films!

Published in 2020, author Adam Cesare gave rise to a new slasher villain in the horror novel Clown in a Cornfield, and a horror movie adaptation is on the way.

Eli Craig (Tucker & Dale vs. Evil) will direct the movie adaptation of the young adult slasher novel, which comes courtesy of Protagonist Pictures Limited and Sony Pictures.

Clown in a Cornfield has been rated “R” this week for…

“Bloody horror violence, language throughout and teen drinking.”

Writer Carter Blanchard adapted Cesare’s novel, which has now spawned two sequels. Clown in a Cornfield 3: The Church of Frendo was just released on August 20, 2024.

Here’s the official synopsis for Adam Cesare’s slasher novel…

“Quinn Maybrook and her father have moved to tiny, boring Kettle Springs, to find a fresh start. But what they don’t know is that ever since the Baypen Corn Syrup Factory shut down, Kettle Springs has cracked in half. On one side are the adults, who are desperate to make Kettle Springs great again, and on the other are the kids, who want to have fun, make prank videos, and get out as quick as they can. Kettle Springs is caught in a battle between old and new, tradition and progress. It’s a fight that looks like it will destroy the town. Until Frendo, the Baypen mascot, a creepy clown in a pork-pie hat, goes homicidal and decides that the only way for Kettle Springs to grow back is to cull the rotten crop of kids who live there now.”

“We love Eli Craig’s brand of scary fun and are thrilled to be working with him on this terrifying slasher adaptation that is both timely and timeless,” said Temple Hill producers.

“Nostalgia driven, elevated horrors that deliver on the promise of the genre – thrilling action, heart-stopping suspense and deeply satisfying endings – continue to dominate at the global box-office,” said Protagonist CEO Dave Bishop. “Our friends at Temple Hill are masters of taking this critical formula and creating wholly original stories that surprise, delight and gratify audiences and Eli is the perfect visionary to bring this special project to its full potential.”