Commercial Property - Giyani

If you are looking for a opportunity in the Retail Industry with passion for sustainability and community then this could be the lucrative opportunity you are looking for.

Trading for over 5 years and still growing business.

The market leader in the region.

This is a incredible opportunity for someone with a passion for the Retail Industry to take over well establish business.

With a loyal customer base and an excellent reputation this business has great potential for growth and expansion.

Call now for this huge investment opportunity which will not be available on the market for long!!

!!!!! Photos for Illustration purposes only !!!!!

Giyani is a town situated in the North-eastern part of Limpopo Province,[2] South Africa. It is the administrative capital of the Mopani District Municipality, and a former capital of the defunct Gazankulu bantustan. The town of Giyani has seven sections: Section A, Section D1, Section D2, Section E, Section F, Kremetart, and Giyani CBD. Risinga View and Church View are new residential areas in Giyani, but fall under local Traditional Leaders. The Giyani CBD is nicknamed Benstore, and this name is commonly used by residents of the region. Giyani is surrounded by a number of villages with rich Tsonga cultural activities, administered by the Greater Giyani Local Municipality.

Prof. Hudson Ntsanwisi, the former Chief minister of Gazankulu, played a vital role in establishing the town. Giyani is situated at the intersection between R578 road (South Africa) and R81. It is located in the heart of the Limpopo Bushveld, on the northern bank of the Klein Letaba River[3] west of Kruger National Park. Situated in the northern portion of former Gazankulu, Giyani was established in the 1960s as the administrative centre for the Tsonga people. Giyani lies 470 km north east of Johannesburg by road, 104 km from Tzaneen, 105 km from the Phalaborwa Gate of the Kruger National Park and 35 km from Malamulele.

In 1969 the Gazankulu Government named a new ward at Elim Hospital 'Giyani Ward' in honour of the Gazankulu capital.