From Mrs Stathatos

Welcome to 2019!

The beginning of the year brings new possibilities and opportunities and in 2019 there are both of these for students and staff at Ringwood Secondary College. As we settle into the new structure of the day with five 60 minute periods, we reflect on how to make every minute of each period matter. The teaching and learning environment is a precious space for learning and developing our knowledge and skills and through an evidenced based pedagogical structure, the integrity of the learning environment is elevated. Our GANAG learning schema offers students the opportunity to learn at an elevated level- connecting to prior knowledge, thinking deeply about new information, applying what is learnt to real life experiences. Our staff continue to be professionally developed in delivering this model of instruction so that there is consistency of practice across the whole college.

In addition, students are becoming increasingly aware that the behaviours they display in the learning environment are an integral part of their success as learners. Their active participation in learning experiences, their independence and responsibility for their own learning journey and their ability to collaborate effectively with a wide group of people is fostered through the Learning Behaviour model that was adopted last year. The importance of the Learning Behaviours is being communicated to students and will be measured at the end of the term through the progress reports.

As a teaching Assistant Principal, I am always keen to hear from my students about their experience of my class. While the college has a formal structure to gauge student feedback of staff performance later in the year, there is nothing quite like the informal feedback we receive during or after a lesson which enables the development of a greater rapport with students and engages us in considering alternative ways of delivering our lessons. The feedback that I have received from my Year 7 class about their primary school language learning is a little disheartening. Their honest appraisal of their language experiences, both positive and negative, has given me a terrific platform from which to launch my lessons. I know they love a teacher with passion and energy, someone who makes them think, makes language learning relevant and engaging and who is interested in their progress. A terrific platform indeed!

The Debutante Ball rehearsals have begun. It is fantastic to watch Year 11 students transforming into graceful dancers by the second rehearsal. The Debutante Ball is not far away, March 2nd at The Grand on Cathies.

From a safety point of view, we ask that parents obey the signs on the pillars in front of the college and not park in the Administration office car park. The designated parking spaces in front of the office are not for drops offs, pick ups or student deliveries. The disabled parking space is only to be used if you have a disabled car park sticker. It is vital that all members of the community obey these rules. In addition, please observe the No Standing sign in Rosewarne Lane for drop offs and pick ups.

Finally, students are encouraged to wear hats and be sun smart during the day. Wearing hats in House colours is a smart way to protect our faces.

Eleni Stathatos

Assistant Principal

From Mr Barut

Welcome back to all our students for the start of the 2019 school year. I also extend greetings to all our parents and all our partners that make up this magnificent Ringwood Secondary College community.

Certainly, I can only envisage the night before where there would have been great excitement and a few nerves about the start of the school year. We were delighted to welcome our newest cohort into the school, the Year Seven class of 2019, all the way to our Year 12 class of 2019.

I would like to congratulate all our students for the terrific start, where the main focus has been settling into classes with their teachers. It is imperative that to continue this excellent start, students must attend all their lessons and get to school every day. Of course, if there are extenuating circumstances, we ask that parents approve any absence on Compass.

The Year 7s have settled into their classes and are developing positive relationships with all their teachers, notwithstanding familiarity with the entire operations of a secondary school college. Their confidence grows every day.

Congratulations to Mrs Menz and the entire Senior School team for organising and supervising the study symposium at Box Hill TAFE in Lilydale. A fantastic undertaking that set the tone for the Year 12 cohort. Thank you to the teachers that offered their time to run Positive Education sessions and study skill tips.

The other Sub Schools have all come back refreshed, enthusiastic and ready to achieve their personal best and engage fully in the programs that Ringwood Secondary College has to offer.

The Heads of Sub Schools, the House Co-ordinators and I are all committed to delivering the best possible support for all our students and we ask for your support in building a partnership together. Interactions for all of us have to respectful and solution focused. To that end, allow me to introduce this year’s team:

Head of Sub School Years 7 and 8 – Ms Anna Urbano

Frazer – Ms Marissa Lee

Freeman – Ms Jess Friend

Mabo – Ms Kim Watson

Jackman – Mrs Faith Tucker

Head of Sub School Years 9 and 10 – Mr Matthew Tucker

Frazer – Ms Krissi Friedli

Freeman – Ms Beatrice Dauguet

Mabo – Mrs Jacqui Godfrey

Jackman – Mr Peter Vlahos

Head of Sub School Years 11 and 12 – Mrs Cathy Menz

Frazer – Ms Caitlin May

Freeman – Ms Emma Lim

Mabo – Mr Matt Saunders

Jackman – Ms Lucy Moore

Please read this newsletter carefully to familiarise yourself with the best contact that can help you with any issues that may arise with your son or daughter. In case you are not familiar with the new college structure, each student is aligned to a House, thus, they are also aligned to a co-ordinator who is in the same House.

Parents and carers, we ask that you log onto Compass to connect with the work that your son/daughter is doing under Learning Tasks so that the learning journey becomes a shared responsibility. Also, at times, Compass notices that are relevant to a specific year level will be posted, that may require parental action.

Before I sign off, a reminder to all students that photo day is the 19th of February. EVERY student must have their photo taken.

We look forward to a sensational 2019. Again, welcome.

James Barut

Assistant Principal

From Mrs Allison

With the ’Plus 10 Schools’ project developing and gaining momentum, the first day in Term 1, was a collective professional learning day for 22 Maroondah Schools. The ‘Live It” day was held at the Melbourne Convention Centre with the focus on creating a positive collective and collaborative event. Chris Helder was the keynote speaker who focused on positive relationships and ‘Useful Belief’. Chris is a best-selling author and keynote speaker on mastering the power of mindsets, genuine communication and influence. Author of ‘Useful Belief’, ‘Cut the Noise’ and The Ultimate Book of Influence’ Chris talked about achieving results with less guilt. In the afternoon, each school had the opportunity to come together to welcome new staff and outline the year ahead.

This week’s whole school assembly, focussed on celebrating leadership, success, teamwork, collaboration and support for the College. Our Year 12 Prefects, together with our Lead Teachers, encouraged all students to participate in House Sports and activities, Performing Arts events and Philanthropic work with a focus on working positively, to be the best person they can be whilst aiming for a productive, optimistic year ahead.

Many important events are coming up in the next few weeks such as the House Swimming Sports this Friday, followed by our Leadership training next Thursday, February 14th. Our student leaders from Years 7-12 will attend their leadership training at EV’s, in Croydon. The morning training will commence with a ‘Plus 10 Schools’ collaborative event for Year 7 students, together with Maroondah City Council, Heathmont College, Melba College, Norwood Secondary College and Ringwood Secondary College (RSC). RSC students in Years 8-11 will be trained, later in the day, by the Maroondah Youth Services team culminating with our College Prefects also attending to co facilitate team building exercises. This will be a great opportunity for all students to support the leadership teams with a focus on positive relationships. I would like to extend my gratitude to Karly Horton (RSC Lead Teacher for Leadership, House and Community Engagement), Maroondah Youth Services and Maroondah secondary colleges staff, for organising and coordinating this unified event.

In the Performing Arts, domain World Tour rehearsals are in full swing, held each Tuesday afternoon, organised by Karl McNamara the Director of Performing Arts. Both students and staff are looking forward to travelling overseas and performing in a variety of countries at the end of Term 1. The annual musical production ‘Spamalot’, commences soon, with auditions beginning in the next week.

Positive Education focus

Character Strength: Leadership

Wellbeing Fitness Challenge: Looking Forward

Wellbeing Reflection Activity: Active Constructive Responding

With the increase in the use of electronic devices, there has been a significant decline in face to face conversations over the last decade with students’ skills in interpreting and sending appropriate body language messages reduced. This can lead to a key social-emotional resilience skill, showing empathy, being adversely affected. Consequently, the building of high quality relationships suffers. Showing empathy has been the social glue that has enabled communities to thrive and flourish for centuries.

To develop students’ self-awareness of how to overcome this they need learn how to use active constructive responding in the face to face conversations they have.

Active Constructive Response: Enthusiastic support, genuine interest

It is the only proven way of listening and responding which builds relationships. With key elements in positive psychology and education being positive relationships and positive emotions, it is important that we encourage young people to enthusiastically encourage others to share their stories and asking them to tell you more by doing this. The end result is that it fills both parties with uplifting spirals of positive emotions.

Other ways of listening and responding which have an adverse effect on relationships include:

passive constructive: such as listening respectfully, but without any interest, energy or enthusiasm; passive destructive: showing little interest in listening to them to learn their story, active destructive: dismissing their story with disrespectful body language and changing the subject.

What you can do to nurture your relationships

Practice Active Constructive responding.

When people share something with you about which they’re excited, help them savour that moment – even if only briefly, and even if you don’t care about the event as much as they do. Cultivate a sense of genuine interest and curiosity. Some things you can say or ask:

I’m so happy for you! I want to hear all the details.

Tell me more!

What is the most exciting part of this for you?

The challenge is to look forward and to aim to have five positives for every one negative

I wish you a very positive year ahead. Remember ‘your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more’.

Maria Allison