Bob Salmi has a diverse and extensive work experience in the technology industry. Bob is currently working as a Senior Software Engineer at CoreWeave since 2023. Prior to that, they worked at DigitalOcean as a Senior Software Engineer II in the Networking/IAAS department from 2017 until 2023. Bob'sresponsibilities at DigitalOcean included working on the networking control plane for connectivity between routing and hypervisor layers, as well as tenant communication over VPC. Bob also worked with distributed services in Golang, MySQL, BGP (Bird), and alerting and metrics for managing distributed servers.

Before joining DigitalOcean, Bob worked at Juniper Networks as a Staff Engineer from 2011 to 2017. In this role, they were part of the RPD Infrastructure group, which provided services between routing protocols and the kernel. Bob'sresponsibilities included route resolution, route and next-hop data structure management, memory allocation, tracing and debugging services, redundancy mechanisms, route table management, routing policy, and other miscellaneous services.

From 2005 to 2012, Bob was the Co-Founder and CTO of Routing Dynamics Inc. This company provided contract engineering and consultancy services to various networking and computing companies. The projects undertaken by Routing Dynamics covered a wide range of industries, including supercomputing, distributed filesystems, automation of wifi test systems, identity management systems, and routing protocol development.

Prior to Routing Dynamics, Bob worked at Cisco Systems Inc as a Technical Lead from 2000 to 2005. Bob was involved in the CRS-1 project and served as the technical lead for the Routing Policy Language project. Bob designed, developed, and delivered the Routing Policy Language (RPL) as the primary language for expressing routing policies on the CRS-1.

Before their time at Cisco, Bob was a Software Engineer at Ascend Communications from 1998 to 2000. Bob provided continuation engineering for releases deployed in the field and escalation services for unresolved issues. Ascend Communications had acquired Netstar, where Bob initially worked as a Software Engineer from 1995 to 2000.

Bob's career in the technology industry began in 1991 as a Unix Sysadmin at the University of Minnesota - Center for Magnetic Resonance Research. Bob was responsible for system uptime and evaluated new technologies to improve network and fileserver performance, including early ATM technology.

Overall, Bob Salmi has demonstrated their expertise and versatility through various roles and responsibilities in the technology industry.

Bob Salmi obtained a Bachelor's degree in Computer Science from the University of Minnesota. Bob attended the university from 1990 to 1995.