Zinedine Zidane is to be appointed the new sports director at Real Madrid.

Valencia coach Unai Emery has agreed to extend his contract by one year until the end of June 2012.

Chievo are searching for a new coach after confirming Stefano Pioli will not be in charge of the Serie A club next season.

Lazio confirmed that coach Edy Reja has signed a new contract keeping him at the club next season, with an option of one more.

Pierpaolo Bisoli has replaced Alberto Malesani as Bologna coach on a two-year deal.

Real Madrid have signed Jose Callejon from Espanyol for a fee reported to be in the region of €5m on a five-year deal.

Sevilla have bolstered their squad for next season by signing German midfielder Piotr Trochowski from Hamburger and forward Manu del Moral from Getafe. Trochowski has agreed a four-year free transfer deal, while Del Moral has signed for five seasons after agreeing a reported €5m switch.

Athletic Bilbao have signed Ander Herrera from Real Zaragoza. The 21-year-old midfielder has put pen to paper on a five-year contract. Reports said the transfer fee was about €7.5m.

Domingos Paciencia has been confirmed as Sporting coach after agreeing a two-year contract with the Lisbon club.

Ajax have announced the signing of Dutch midfielder Theo Janssen on a two-year contract from league rivals Twente for an undisclosed fee over €3m. Ajax have also signed South African midfielder Thulani Serero on a four-year deal from Ajax Cape Town.

Club Brugge have signed Danish international Niki Zimling from Italian club Udinese on a four-year deal. Brugge have paid €500,000 for the midfielder.

Dinamo Zagreb have named Krunoslav Jurcic as their new coach following the departure of Vahid Halilhodzic.

Hajduk Split have announced that Krassimir Balakov will be their new coach.

Norwich have announced that James Vaughan is to join the club for an undisclosed fee on a three-year deal.

Stefan de Vrij has handed Feyenoord a boost by committing his future to the club until June 2014.

Vurnon Anita has penned a new two-year deal at Ajax to keep him in Amsterdam until June 2014.

Oxford United have snapped up striker Deane Smalley on a two-year deal with an option for a third.

Notts County have signed Ishmel Demontagnac on a free transfer on a one year deal with an option to extend for a year.

Nigel Reo-Coker, John Carew, Robert Pires, Moustapha Salifou and Isaiah Osbourne along with youngsters Harry Forrester, Arsenio Halfhuid, Durrell Berry, Ellis Deeney and Calum Flanagan have all been released by Aston Villa.

Colchester United goalkeeper Mark Cousins has signed a new two-year contract ahead of next season.

Stoke City have confirmed that former captain Abdoulaye Faye has departed following the expiration of his contract.

Wycombe have captured forward Joel Grant on a free transfer from Crewe on a two-year deal.

Newcastle starlet Shane Ferguson has signed a new deal to keep him at St James' Park until 2016.

Barnet's influential midfielder Mark Hughes has signed a new one-year contract with the club.

Defenders Kris Taylor and Matthew Bell have been released by Port Vale. Gareth Owen has accepted a player-coach role.

Crystal Palace teenager Ibra Sekajja has secured a two-year professional contract at Selhurst Park. Jake Caprice has penned a one-year professional contract while Charlie Holness has signed a one-year deal having been on a similar contract for a year already.

St.Johnstone have signed Callum Davidson on a one year deal.

Stephen Carr and Enric Valles' one year options have been exercised by Birmingham, keeping them at the club. Sebastian Larsson, Kevin Phillips, Lee Bowyer, Goalkeeper Maik Taylor and defenders Martin Jiranek and Stuart Parnaby have been released by the club.

Teenage Dutch forward Mitchell Te Vrede has switched to Excelsior from Eredivisie rivals AZ Alkmaar.

Wycombe Wanderers midfielder Matt Bloomfield has signed a new one-year deal with the Chairboys.

Reading have agreed a 'substantial' fee with Queens Park Rangers to sign midfielder Mikele Leigertwood on a three-year contract.

Efe Sodje and Ben Futcher have signed new one-year deals at Bury.

Juventus have signed defender Reto Ziegler from relegated Sampdoria on a four-year deal.

Arsenal have finalised the capture of Barcelona starlets Jon Toral and Hector Bellerin. (Toral has an English mother)

Wycombe centre-back Leon Johnson has signed a new two-year contract which will keep him at the club until 2013.

Bournemouth striker Steve Lovell has signed a new one-year contract with the option of a further 12 months at Dean Court.

Newcastle have sealed the capture of highly-rated Lens youngster Mehdi Abeid on a five year deal.

Hearts have sealed a deal for St Johnstone's Danny Grainger.The defender is the club's third signing of the day following the arrivals of Jamie Hamill and John Sutton from Kilmarnock and Motherwell respectively. Sutton and Hammil have signed three-year contracts.

Stevenage young striker Tom Collins has signed a professional contract with the club as has Michael Thalassitis.

Charlton Athletic have agreed a deal to sign rookie goalkeeper Nick Pope from non-league outfit Bury Town on a two-year deal.

Birmingham City keeper Colin Doyle has committed his future to the relegated club after penning a one-year extension option. Marcus Bent has been released after his contract expired.

Bolton have announced that Jlloyd Samuel, Joey O'Brien, Tamir Cohen and Johan Elmander are to leave the club following the expiration of their respective contracts. Sam Sheridan, Maison McGeechan and Tom Eckersley have all also left Bolton. Bolton have also taken up a one-year option to extend Robbie Blake's deal.

Newcastle have released Sol Campbell and Shefki Kuqi.

St Mirren's Steven Thomson and David Barron have agreed one-year deals.

Kilmarnock defender Garry Hay has signed a new one-year contract at Rugby Park.

Danny Andrew has agreed a new one-year contract extension at Cheltenham Town ahead of next season.

AC Milan have confirmed veteran midfielder Clarence Seedorf has signed a new one-year contract at the San Siro.

Adebayo Akinfenwa has completed a shock return to Northampton after rejecting a new deal at Gillingham. The striker has signed a two-year deal.

David Connolly has signed a new one-year contract at Southampton.

Charlton have made their first two signings of the summer by landing midfield duo Danny Hollands and Bradley Pritchard. Hollands has been given a three-year deal.

Italy international Andrea Pirlo has completed his move to Juventus on a three-year contract.

AC Milan now hold complete ownership of midfielder Kevin-Prince Boateng after reaching an agreement with Genoa. As part of the deal, part-owned players Alberto Paloschi, Marco Amelia, Nnamdi Oduamadi and Gianmarco Zigoni have transferred to Milan, while Greek centre-back Sokratis Papastathopoulos has returned to Genoa.

Sheffield Wednesday have completed their first two signings of the summer in defender Rob Jones and midfielder David Prutton. Both arrive on free transfers for two-year deals.

Crystal Palace boss Dougie Freedman has won the race to sign striker Glenn Murray on a free transfer from Brighton on a three-year deal.

Willo Flood is back at Dundee United having re-signed on a two-year deal after leaving Middlesbrough.

Accrington have announced Jonny Bateson, Andy Parkinson and Rory Boulding will leave the club. Chris Turner, Zak Riley, Andy Owens and Tom Smyth have also been released.

Exeter have revealed goalkeeper Paul Jones and forward Jake Thompson are among 13 players who will leave the club this summer. James Wood, Matt Armstrong-Ford, James Norwood, Ben Watson, Ryan Harley and Dan Western are also leaving City, along with Noah Keats, Joe Heath, Ethan Phillips, Paul Gibbins and Josh Searle. Bertie Cozic, Rob Edwards and Marcus Stewart have announced their retirement. Teenage defender Kallum Keane has signed a permanent deal with League One outfit.

Espanyol have signed forward Juan Albin from Getafe on a free transfer. Albin moves to Espnayol along with fellow countryman Adrian Luna who both penned five year deals.

St Mirren midfield veteran Hugh Murray has been handed a new one-year-contract at the Paisley club, with an option for a further year. Also, defender David Barron signed a similar deal while goalkeeper Craig Samson agreed a new two-year deal.