The Greater Rockford Airport Authority is one of the oldest airport authorities in the United States. Formed in 1946, the Authority has four jurisdictions who appoint a seven-member Board of Commissioners.

The Mayor of the City of Rockford appoints three members, the County Board Chairman of Winnebago County appoints two members, the Mayor of Loves Park appoints one member, and the Village President of Machesney Park appoints one member. Commissioners are appointed for a term of five years and can be reappointed. 2006 marked the 60th anniversary of the Greater Rockford Airport Authority and 2007 marked the 20th anniversary of our Main Terminal.

The Board of Commissioners is responsible for setting policies and ordinances governing the operations at RFD, which are carried out or enforced by a professional staff. The Authority meets on the second and fourth Thursday of every month.

Passenger Services

RFD is currently ranked as the 220th largest passenger service airport in the U.S., with more than 230,000 travelers passing through its doors each year. Depending on the season, up to 31 flights depart from RFD each week.

The airport is served by Allegiant Air with flights to the following destinations:

Las Vegas, Nevada

Los Angeles, California

Nashville, Tennessee

Phoenix/Mesa, Arizona

Fort Myers/Punta Gorda, Florida

Orlando/Sanford, Florida

Sarasota, Florida

Tampa/St. Petersburg, Florida

» See our Destinations (Passengers)

Cargo Services

The Chicago Rockford International Airport (RFD) is home to a continually growing air cargo industry and is ranked as the 13th largest airport in the United States for air cargo with more than 3 billion pounds of landed weight in 2023 The Airport is home to the second-largest UPS hub in North America and a major base of operations for Amazon Air.

In 2019, RFD was named the fastest-growing cargo airport in the world. The Airport campus also encompasses an aviation maintenance repair facility (AAR) as well as other aircraft maintenance operations capable of servicing next-generation aircraft, as well as an aviation education maintenance program (Rock Valley College) that is turning out a highly trained and skilled workforce. Currently, RFD and its tenants are home to more than 8,000 jobs and contribute millions of dollars annually in real estate taxes. More than 15 international airlines service RFD as a freighter network serving destinations to and from countries from around the world, as well as from international tier one freight forwarders such as DB Schenker, DSV and SENATOR.

» Learn more

Land Development

The Greater Rockford Airport Authority encompasses nearly 3,000 acres of land, including both developed and undeveloped land. The airport is a perfect location to locate, or re-locate your business. RFD is at the center of three major highways (U.S. 20, I-90, and I-39), is in close proximity to rail networks and major manufacturing and distribution facilities, as well as the center of Foreign Trade Zone #176.

» Learn more

Go behind the scenes at RFD

A tour of our terminal makes a great field trip for your class or organization.

If you or your group would like to schedule a tour of the RFD Main Terminal please E-mail Michael Peranich, mperanich@flyrfd.com.

Please include the following information in your E-mail:

Name of Group

Name of Contact Person

Number of People in the Group

Proposed Date and Time of Tour