Cape Cod Chamber Orchestra

·

Follow

4 min read

·

Oct 15, 2019

--

#notesfromthebeach

Jean-Philippe Rameau, prominent composer of opera, harpsichord music and predominant music theorist, was fascinated by the political events of the day. France was heavily dabbling in what would erupt as colonialism, and in 1725, French settlers in what is now Illinois sent five chiefs to Paris to meet King Louis XV. Their visit inspired Rameau to write what would later become Les sauvages (“The Savages”), and still later to group it into an Orientalist suite exploring the idea of the “Other.” Les Indes Galantes (“The Gallant Indians”) was consumed eagerly by the Parisian public, resulting in a long run at the Opéra and multiple revivals.

Rameau’s work continued to be performed by the Paris Opéra and other companies into the twentieth century, with an opulent staging and professional choreography. Throughout, European ideas of romance and love are inserted into exotic locations, providing a staged and thoroughly imagined version of a mythical “East.”

Set in four acts, the opera-ballet tells us of four love stories, set in different “exotic” locations around the globe: The Incas of Peru, North America, Persia, and an island out in the Indian ocean.

From Britannica:

The first act, “Le Turc généreux,” is set on an island in the Indian Ocean, where a pasha loves a French girl whom he has taken captive. When the pasha recognizes that she loves the man who once rescued him from slavery, he takes pity on them and eventually releases both. The second act, “Les Incas du Pérou,” set during a Festival of the Sun in Peru, likewise treats a love triangle: a Spaniard, an Incan princess, and an Incan high priest. The Spaniard wins the contest, though not before the spectacular festival and the eruption of a volcano. The third act, “Les Fleurs — fête Persane,” set in Persia, treats suspected infidelity. The fourth and final act, “Les Sauvages,” which takes place in North America, features yet another love triangle, with a Frenchman and a Spaniard competing for the attentions of a young Native American woman, who rejects both Europeans in favour of a Native American warrior.

Rameau was known primarily as a composer of opera, writing over two dozen works throughout the last 30 years of his life. His often colorful and dissonant harmonies and orchestration fell out of fashion by the end of his life, as by the 1760s the public favored the simplicity and tunefulness of the classical style. Nevertheless, Rameau’s exploration of music for dramatic effect remains his greatest contribution.

“Haydn the Pirate”

Sunday, October 20th, 3 PM

Join us at 2:15 PM before our concert to learn more about this historic wreckage as we sit down with Chris Macort, underwater field archaeologist for the Whydah Pirate Museum.

Pilgrim Church, 533 Rt. 28, Harwich Port

Join the CCCO in a program featuring the life and story of “Black Sam” Bellamy, who after becoming one of the richest pirates in history, goes down with his crew in 1717 aboard the Whydah during a violent storm off the coast of Wellfleet. Composer Sam Wu premieres a new work depicting this harrowing story as we present a collaborative concert with the Whydah Pirate Museum.

The CCCO will also perform Sibelius’ reaction to Belshazzar’s Feast, a selection of music from Jean-Philippe Rameau’s ballet and opera works, and Haydn’s “Mourning” Symphony.

PROGRAM:

SIBELIUS Belshazzar’s Feast

RAMEAU Selections from Ballet and Opera

SAM WU “Black Sam” Bellamy Commission

HAYDN Symphony №44 “Mourning”

Tickets start at just $30, available at www.capecodchamberorchestra.org. Children and Students are admitted FREE all season. Get our entire season by getting a Season Pass here.