Here's the top transfer-related stories in Thursday's newspapers...

Liverpool want Real Madrid midfielder Sami Khedira on a free transfer, according to reports in Spain. The midfielder is free to sign a pre-contract agreement with Liverpool now and Brendan Rodgers is keen to wrap up a deal quickly as Manchester United, Chelsea and Bayern Munich are also keen on the vastly experienced German international. (Liverpool Echo)

Brazilian defender Danilo has turned down a new contract at Porto - and that has put Liverpool and Manchester United on red alert. (Daily Mirror)

Manchester United are preparing to move for Nathaniel Clyne as soon as the transfer window re-opens. The ambitious Southampton full-back is keen on a move to Old Trafford to follow in the footsteps of Luke Shaw. (Daily Mirror)

Kevin de Bruyne has suggested he could be keen on a move to Manchester United. The 23-year-old playmaker has starred for Wolfsburg since moving from Chelsea and is attracting interest from a host of clubs across Europe. (Daily Express)

Manchester United defender Tyler Blackett is on the verge of agreeing a new two-and-a-half-year contract at the club. (The Times)

Monaco defender Aymen Abdennour claims Tottenham want to sign him. Tunisia international Abdennour, 25, has been linked with a £5million move to White Hart Lane this summer. (Daily Mirror)

Aaron Lennon is keen to seal a permanent move to Everton in the summer following his loan move from Tottenham in January. (London Evening Standard)

West Ham are tracking Ghanian midfielder Bernard Mensah. The 20-year-old midfielder is currently at Portuguese club Vitoria De Guimaraes, who have also had interest from Juventus in a part-ownership deal. (Daily Mirror)

West Ham are also giving a trial to Swedish striker Robert Lipovac. The 18-year-old plays for BK Hacken but his club have given him permission to visit West Ham this week where he is training with the club's U21 squad. (Daily Mail)

Queens Park Rangers defender Darnell Furlong is wanted by a host of Premier League clubs including Newcastle, Sunderland, West Brom and Hull. (Daily Mirror)

And here's the latest talkSPORT.com headlines...

Exclusive - Former Arsenal star slams Champions League display - ‘Where’s the leadership?’, new

'The best years are still ahead for Petr Cech', hails Arsenal goalkeeping legend

Reports - Juventus run rule over Man City man ahead of Pogba departure

Sensational report! Man United star 'nears Real Madrid switch after falling out with Van Gaal'

Teen sensation admits delight at Manchester City links

Barcelona legend still tops transfer target list for New York City

Reports - Liverpool target moves step closer to Inter Milan switch

Pogba Mark II? Is this the latest Manchester United starlet to join Juventus?

AC Milan join Newcastle and West Ham in fight for French starlet

Blow for Newcastle! Inter Milan offer Magpies target two-year deal

Boost for Premier League suitors! Palermo president confirms talks over striker sale

Man United transfer blow! Top target hints at Juventus switch