As we march towards the end of February, with the Premier League and Champions in full swing, the January transfer window is all but a distant memory already.

But the transfer market never really sleep. Agents are always out there, pushing their clients. Managers never stop looking for that next deal who will be the one who can fire the team to glory/mid-table safety/avoid relegation.

Planning for the summer window will already be well underway.

It seems likely that plenty of teams will be in the market this summer. Manchester United continue to rebuild under Louis van Gaal, Arsenal might need an actual defensive midfielder (at last!), while Manchester City are never too far from a deal.

Here are the latest transfer bits and pieces from the Daily Mirror and today's newspapers:

Transfer stories from today's Daily Mirror

Manchester United are preparing to move for Southampton and England full-back Nathaniel Clyne as soon as the summer transfer window opens.

Monaco defender Aymen Abdennour claims Tottenham want to sign him.

Brazilian defender Danilo has turned down a new contract at Portuguese heavyweights Porto - and that has put Liverpool and Manchester United on red alert.

West Ham are tracking Bernard Mensah, a 20-year-old Ghanian midfielder currently at Portuguese club Vitoria De Guimaraes.

QPR defender Darnell Furlong is wanted by a host of Premier League clubs including Newcastle, Sunderland, West Brom and Hull. Furlong, 19, only made his Hoops first-team debut at the weekend but is out of contract at the end of the season.

Raheem Sterling has offered the biggest hint yet that he is prepared to sign a new deal with Liverpool.

Manchester United are on the verge of losing young starlet Andreas Pereira, in a similar scenario that saw the Red Devils lose Paul Pogba for nothing.

Transfer stories from other newspapers and websites

Liverpool are being linked with a summer move for Real Madrid midfielder Sami Khedira, according to reports in Germany.

Khedira is free to sign a pre-contract agreement with Liverpool now and Brendan Rodgers is reportedly keen to wrap up a deal quickly as Manchester United, Chelsea and Bayern Munich are also keen on the vastly experienced German international. (Liverpool Echo)

West Ham have handed a trial to 18-year-old Swedish striker Robert Lipovac. He currently plays for BK Hacken but this week he is training with the Hammers' U21 squad. (Daily Mail)

Manchester United are eyeing a £30m swoop for former Chelsea man Kevin De Bruyne, after the Belgian international warned he current club Wolfsburg his dream is to play for a "big European club". (Daily Express)

Aaron Lennon wants to make his loan switch to Everton a permanent move this summer - but could see his hopes dashed by Tottenham's £7m asking price. (London Evening Standard)

Everton have sent scouts to watch Manchester United outcast Nani. The 28-year-old fell out-of-favour with United's hierarchy, and currently plus his trade at Portuguese outfit Sporting Lisbon. He is looking to revitalise his Premier League protects - but a return to Old Trafford seems unlikely. (Liverpool Echo)

Former Tottenham and Arsenal star Sol Campbell has revealed senior Tories are urging him to stand for London Mayor. The former England defender said he was “definitely” interested in a role that would turn politics on its head. (The Sun)

Other stories from today's Daily Mirror

Manuel Pellegrini is under mounting pressure following Manchester City's no-show against Barcelona in the Champions League. And doubts are growing over the future of skipper Vincent Kompany too, after his own horror-show against the Spanish giants.

England could fast-track Liverpool starlet Jordon Ibe into their senior set-up to prevent him being snapped up by Nigeria.

Oscar winning movie star Russell Crowe is considering a takeover of sleeping giants Leeds United - and has asked Twitter to help him decide. Crowe, who has claimed in the past that he grew up as a Leeds supporter, took over Australia's Rugby League side South Sydney Rabbitohs in 2006 and helped build them into NRL champions.