In the early days of eBay I sold a lot of items to US collectors. The rules were still friendly to collectors, they did not freak out when they saw a swastika, and to be honest: US collectors paid top dollar, which helped me a lot to expand my collection. Paypal did not exist and payments were done by check, Western Union or cash. And eBay was fun! There was at least one death notices I always regretted selling. I got a great price, and I was very happy with that, but... Guess you know the feeling.

So I was very happy when another one popped up after so many years, and I bought it instantly.

Translation of the text is about like this:

During a night attack by the Bolsheviks

fell on the command post on

March 1, 1943 in Terny at the Orel River,

south of Kharkov, my dear, faithful

Son, our brave brother

SS squad leader, Josef Wetzel,

born September 3, 1914

in Gundelfingen.

His company commander writes:'Josef

was one of my best and bravest,

he fought like a lion and took

many opponents with him, to their deaths.

The war is hard, we want to be harder.

We SS men have the honor to belong to a troop in which you are not

to live long and we are proud on that.'

Not quite comforting for the mother I guess.

Bei einem Nachtangriff der Bolschewisten

auf den Gefechtsstand fiel am

1.März 1943 in Terny am Orel-Fluß

südw. Charkow mein lieber, treubesorgter

Sohn, unser tapferer Bruder

SS Rottenführer Josef Wetzel

geboren am 3. September 1914

in Gundelfingen.

Sein Kompanieführer schreibt:, , Josef

wareiner meiner Besten u. Tapfersten,

er kämpfte wie ein Löwe und nahm

viele Gegner mit in den Tod.

DerKriegisthart,wirwollenhärter sein.

Wir SS-Männer haben die Ehre, einer

Truppe anzugehören, in der man nicht

lange zu leben pflegt und wir sind

stolz darauf.‘

Click to enlarge the picture

2./Kompanie Gebirgsjäger Regiment 100 - Alois (Frater Alan) Hötschl, Kapuziner Kleriker Novize (Brother Alan Hötschl, Capuchin Cleric Novice).

Name- Alois Hötschl

Rank: Jäger

Birth Date: 23 April 1919

Birth Place: Kelheim Ndby

Military Unit: 2./Kompanie Gebirgsjäger Regiment 100

Death Date: 26 May 1940

Death Place: Hauptverbandplatz Sanatorium St Gobain Frankreich

His cause of death is noted as Gefallen: Infanterie Geschuß, Bauchschuß (Killed in action: Infantry shot, abdomen shot).

Alois Hötschl is buried in the military cemetery in Fort-de-Malmaison, France.

Endgrablage: Block 4 Reihe 42 Grab 1680.

The below information is what I think Alois would have been involved in before he was drafted into the Wehrmacht -

Capuchin Formation Program | Capuchin Franciscan Friars Australia.

A little information about religious men in the Wehrmacht -

According to the agreements of 1933 (article 27) only the religious who have an operational function in parishes and religious schools are exempted from military service, leaving everything in suspense. But in 1939 Germany agreed with the Vatican (in a position of strength with Catholic Poland already occupied) that all non -"operative" religious, including seminarians, friars, monks, etc were obliged to enlist in health units, also and often in first line units. There will be about one Division of German (and Austrian) Catholic clerics enrolled and of the 17,776 enlisted (from Lauren Falkner Rossi 'Wehramcht Priest') the fallen and missing amounted to 2403 (about 15%).