Minnesota-born rock legend Bob Dylan turns 82 years old later this month. Northland music fans will celebrate with Duluth Dylan Fest, a weeklong festival featuring live music, lectures, tours, and a birthday cake outside his childhood home in the hills above Lake Superior.

Born Robert Allen Zimmerman in Duluth on May 24, 1941, and raised 75 miles away in Hibbing, Bob Dylan is lauded as one of the most influential songwriters of the 20th century. Duluth Dylan Fest salutes his lifetime of work with events in Duluth, Hibbing, and nearby Superior, Wis., during the week of May 20-28.

Duluth Dylan Fest committee member Laura Whitney says music fans from across the country — with a few from overseas — are expected to visit during the week and share their love for the man often heralded as the “voice of a generation.”

“People come from all over the world for this,” she says. “They make a pilgrimage to Duluth and Hibbing and then they come back because of the friendships that they’ve made. Aside from all the great music, there’s a camaraderie. It’s just fun to gather and celebrate something.”

Duluth Dylan Fest, organized annually by a group of community volunteers, has led the birthday celebration for more than 20 years. Always a wide-ranging affair, live music sits at the heart of the event, which this year includes:

● St. Louis-based tribute band Hard Rain - All Things Dylan performing on an outdoor stage during kick-off events at Earth Rider Festival Grounds in Superior on Saturday, May 20.

● A Duluth supergroup called the Basement Tapes Band featuring Marc Gartman, Teague Alexy, Sarah Krueger, and others performing songs from the 1967 recordings on an outdoor stage at Bent Paddle Brewing in Duluth’s Lincoln Park on Monday, May 22.

● The Dogs Do Dylan, featuring up-and-coming Duluth jam band New Salty Dog, on stage at Wussow’s Concert Cafe in West Duluth on Tuesday, May 23.

● New York City-based music journalist and songwriter Jeff Slate sings and shares stories at Sacred Heart Music Center in Duluth on Thursday, May 25.

● Minneapolis supergroup Infidels — featuring Dan Israel, Terry Walsh, and Steve Brantseg — also at Sacred Heart Music Center on Saturday, May 27.

Whitney says the Jeff Slate concert will be something special. In a career spanning more than 40 years of writing and performing, Slate has recorded three solo albums and performs regularly in New York. As a music journalist, he has interviewed a who’s who of rock royalty — including a 2022 Q&A with Dylan for the Wall Street Journal. “He’s a very renowned journalist, writer, and musician,” she says. “So we’re lucky to have him in Duluth.”

Earthrider Brewery CEO, longtime Duluth musician, and an early Dylan Fest organizer Tim Nelson says the birthday celebration always generates excitement in the Twin Ports.

“You can dabble in the Dylan events or you can really immerse yourself during that week of all things Bob Dylan,” he says. “It’s the sense of place that Duluth lends to the artist … you know, he’s from the North like us, so I think that’s a bit of pride.”

Nelson says a songwriter competition set for Friday, May 26 at Sacred Heart Music Center shows how Dylan’s work has impacted the Northland. Twelve musicians will perform one original song and one Dylan composition during the event.

“It’s the spirit of creativity,” he says. “I think the local arts and culture shines through in this festival. It’s not just what Bob Dylan did, it’s what the people here are still doing and the interest that’s in it.”

For example, New Salty Dog guitarist and songwriter Jacob Mahon will perform at three events during the week. Mahon, 23, grew up in Longville, Minn., and moved to Duluth as a teenager. He says Dylan’s music has been inspirational and instructive in his development as a musician.

“It’s fun as a songwriter learning these songs because there’s so much emphasis on the lyrics,” says Mahon. “Getting prepared for Dylan Fest this year, it’s really rekindling my love for Dylan because there’s still so much stuff I haven’t tapped into.”

Mahon is looking forward to performing during Dylan Fest. “There are so many songs that so many people know. If someone recognizes a song it’s always exciting, there’s a connection there,” he says. “When it’s a Bob Dylan song, rest assured it’s solid gold, so I’m just focused on delivering the lines and I love that.”

In addition to all the great music, Whitney says visitors will be able to explore a few Dylan landmarks. The historic Duluth Armory, where Dylan famously witnessed one of Buddy Holly’s final concerts in 1959, will be open for tours at 10 am Saturday, May 20. Robert Zimmerman Hibbing Day is Sunday, May 21. The event includes lunch and Dylan lore at Sammy’s Pizza, tours of the Hibbing High School auditorium — where Dylan performed as a youth — and music in the front yard of the former Zimmerman family home.

And not to be missed, Dylan’s birthday on Wednesday, May 24, will be celebrated outside his childhood home in the Duluth hillside. Dozens typically gather on the sidewalk while Duluth-based singer-songwriter Greg Tiburzi performs and cake is passed around.

Whitney recommended anyone attending should bring a coat. “Make sure to bring warm clothes,” she says. “That wind off the lake is really cold.”

Nelson agreed but says the notorious north country weather shouldn’t stop music fans.

“This is a great showcasing of not only Duluth music but regional and national musicians who are coming in to honor Bob,” he says. “There’s a lot of like-minded Dylanologists who will be here to talk about all things Bob Dylan. I think it will be just a great experience.”

For a full schedule of events go to: duluthdylanfest.com

This week's Duluth Local Show features Dylan Fest, including Bob Dylan songs sung by Duluth artists, from the Duluth Does Dylan albums. Listen on Sunday, May 21, at 8 p.m. Central.