Thank you for visiting the website of Mikoya Hogaku Academy. I set up Mikoya Hogaku Academy in 2003 to encourage talent and to promote Japanese traditional music, in particular, Koto and Shamisen. Japan has a long history and a rich traditional culture. Koto and Shamisen are part of such Japanese traditional culture. The culture that each country has is invaluable. It will be very sad if we lose our invaluable traditions and culture simply due to our negligence. My ultimate goals are to offer and create the opportunities for people to enjoy and become familiar with Koto and Shamisen music, and to build the foundation so that Koto and Shamisen music is protected and handed down to the next generation. Every April, Mikoya Hogaku Academy holds a recital where the members of Mikoya Hogaku Academy participate. You will be surrounded with Japanese traditional music (Koto, Shamisen, Shakuhachi and Ohayashi) for a whole day. Please feel free to visit our recital (admission free) to listen to and enjoy this aspect of Japanese traditional culture. It would be our pleasure if we could introduce you to a new tradition so that you may enjoy Koto and Shamisen music in your day-to-day life.

Yutaka Mikoya, Principal of Mikoya Hogaku Academy

Profile of Yutaka Mikoya:

1972: Obtained tutor license of Koto (age of 7)

1979: Obtained tutor license of Nagauta (age of 22)

1981: Graduated from Tokyo National University of Fine Arts and Music

1984: Master from Tokyo National University of Fine Arts and Music

Yutaka Mikoya has performed Koto in African countries and the UK, and at receptions for various foreign ministers/presidents which were hosted by the Japanese government. He set up Mikoya Hogaku Academy in 2003. In addition to his commitment at Mikoya Hogaku Academy, he currently teaches Koto and Shamisen at Tokyo National University of Fine Arts and Music, and has been teaching Koto at Honjo Higashi High School’s Koto Club since 1990.

He performs at various recitals in Tokyo and Saitama Prefecture. Should you require any further information of his performance schedule, please contact us via email.