The word Sapphire is derived from the Greek word 'Sappheiros,' referred to Lapis Lazuli. All colors of Corundum except the medium light to the dark tone of red to purple-red are described as Sapphire. The trade names of Sapphire are not based on the sources as in the case of Ruby. Sapphire and Ruby are Corundum and are same optically, chemically and physically except for impure elements which are responsible for its colour.

It is advisable to describe the colour of a particular Sapphire as yellow, blue, pink, etc. Since the word Sapphire stands alone and usually means the gem is blue, most jewelry customers believe that all Sapphires are blue and when gems and jewelry professionals use the word 'Sapphire' alone, they normally mean 'Blue Sapphire.'

Description

Sapphire is the birthstone for September. The value of Sapphires reduces considerably by the factors of unevenness of color, spots and streaked appearance and the tendency to appear purplish in artificial light. Stones which are pale or very dark and stones that are flawed or cracked have very little value.

The slight violet blue or medium dark tone is usually the most desirable. Intense orange and alexandrite like Sapphires are very highly priced, whereas dark-green stones have very little value in the gems trading industry. Pink, Yellow, Violet and Green Sapphires have got a different value in the market depending upon the intensity of its color.

Siam, Siamese or Thai Sapphire:- This category of Sapphires appear dark blue even in daylight. Their colour is also defined as blue-black. The term SIAM Sapphire is used to describe stones found close to Kashmir, in England, whereas in America this title was applied for poor grade sapphires.

Ceylon Sapphire: - Light grayish blue to light blue-violet, reasonably brilliant stones are named as Ceylon Sapphires. Some of the stones of this category sapphires have an unusual amount of 'silk' which reduces the brilliance and adds a grayish color. Uneven color zoning is another striking characteristic of this category of stones; however, top-grade Sri Lankan Sapphires belong to the most excellent grade of Sapphire.

Montana Sapphire: - Sapphires which are produced from the deposits in Montana in the USA are known as Montana Sapphire. These stones are transparent, blue and are described as having steel or electric blue colour.

African Sapphire: - African Sapphires exhibit a colour change, mostly steel blue to green or purple. Sapphires from Africa come in all varieties of pastel colours: light blue, light violet, blue violet, red violet, pale orange, pale yellow, steel gray, and dark brownish orange.

Australian Sapphire: - These stones are very inky dark and have an intense green to very dark violet-blue dichroism and are mined in Australia. Strong color zoning and feathers are the characteristics of Australian corundum. Australian characteristics sapphires are found elsewhere too.