President George Herbert Walker Bush addresses the audience outside the Capitol in Washington, D.C., Jan. 20, 1989, after he was sworn in as the 41st President of the United States.

A Navy fighter pilot during World War II, Mr. Bush also served as a congressman from Texas, chair of the Republican Party, United Nations Ambassador, CIA director, and U.S. envoy to China during his long career in public service. He was also father of the 43rd President, George W. Bush.

Mr. Bush died on Friday, November 30, 2018 at the age of 94.

Family

George Herbert Walker Bush, pictured at age five with his sister Mercy, was born June 12, 1924 in Milton, Massachusetts.

Bush family

An undated picture of Sen. Prescott Bush, R-Conn., posing with his family; his son George Herbert Walker Bush stands on the left.

Bush graduated from Yale University with a degree in Economics in 1948, and made a fortune drilling for oil in Texas before entering politics in 1964.

Young couple

George Herbert Walker Bush poses with Barbara Pierce and his brother Bucky in the 1940s.

World War II pilot

George Herbert Walker Bush is pictured in the cockpit of his TBM Avenger during the World War II.

Wedding

George and Barbara Bush on their wedding day, in Rye, N.Y., January 6, 1945.

Young family

George and Barbara Bush, with their first two children, George W. and Pauline ("Robin"), at the rodeo grounds in Midland, Texas, October 1950. They would have four more children: John ("Jeb"), Neil, Marvin, and Dorothy.

Robin died of leukemia at age 3.

Congressional campaign

George Herbert Walker Bush poses with his wife Barbara during his campaign for Congress in the 1960s. After losing his first race in 1964, Bush won two terms to Congress, before running for the Senate in 1970, losing to Lloyd Bentsen.

China

George H.W. Bush served as U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations from 1971-1974, before serving as Special Envoy to China (1974-1975).

Beijing

George Herbert Walker Bush poses with his wife Barbara in Beijing in 1974.

CIA Director

George Herbert Walker Bush is sworn in as Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, January 30, 1976 in Washington. Pictured with him are the Minister of Justice Baxter Stewart, wife Barbara Bush, CIA vice director Vernon Walters and President Gerald Ford.

Reagan-Bush ticket

Former California Governor Ronald and Nancy Reagan and George and Barbara Bush were the Republican Party ticket for president and vice president in 1980. They would defeat incumbent President Jimmy Carter and Vice President Walter Mondale.

Reagan cabinet

Photo taken on February 4, 1981 shows President Ronald Reagan, Vice-President George Bush and the Reagan Cabinet members. From left, front row: Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr, President Reagan, Vice-President Bush, and Secretary of Defense Caspar W. Weinberger. From left, second row: Secretary of Labor Raymond J. Donovan, Secretary of the Treasury Donald T. Regan, Secretary of Education Terrel H. Bell, Office of Management and Budget David Stockman, Secretary of Transportation Andrew L. Lewis, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Samuel R. Pierce, Attorney General William Franch Smith, U.S. Representative to the United Nations Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, Counselor to the President Edwin Meese III, Secretary of Energy James B. Edwards, Secretary of Commerce Malcom Baldridge, United States Trade Representative William E. Brock, Secretary of Health and Human Services Richard Schweiker, Secretary of Agriculture John R. Block, and Central Intelligence Agency Director William J. Casey.

Bush and Gorbachev

Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev meets with Vice President George Bush at the Soviet embassy, December 10, 1987, on the final day of Gorbachev's summit visit to the U.S.

Maine

Vice President George H.W. Bush and his wife, Barbara, at Kennebunkport, Maine, August 6, 1988.

With the Reagans

President Ronald Reagan shakes hands with Vice President George H.W. Bush as first lady Nancy Reagan looks on, June 3, 1988, at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland.

Election night victory

George H.W. Bush and his family celebrate his presidential victory on election night, November 8, 1988, at the Brown Convention Center in Houston. Bush defeated the Democratic nominee, Massachusetts Governor Michael Dukakis.

Gone fishing

President-elect George H.W. Bush is smashed by a wave while fishing in Florida, Nov. 14, 1988.

Inauguration Day

Former President Ronald Reagan, left, his wife Nancy Reagan, first lady Barbara Bush and President George H.W. Bush walk down the Capitol steps after the inaugural ceremony in Washington, D.C., Friday, Jan. 20, 1989, after Mr. Bush was sworn in as the nation's 41st president.

Inaugural Ball

President and Mrs. Bush attend an inaugural ball, in Washington, D.C., January 20, 1989.

President

President and Mrs. Bush and their dog, Millie, disembark Marine One, March 12, 1989.

Mandela and Bush

South African anti-apartheid leader and future president Nelson Mandela waves to the media and fans, June 25, 1990, after finishing his joint statement with President George H.W. Bush on the White House South Lawn.

Saudi Arabia

President George H. W. Bush and first lady Barbara Bush wave to U.S Marines at the desert encampment during a Thanksgiving visit, Thursday, Nov. 22, 1990, in Saudi Arabia.

Elie Wiesel

President George H. W. Bush receives the Elie Wiesel Foundation Humanity Award on March 18, 1991, in the Oval Office of the White House from Nobel Laureate Elie Wiesel.

Queen's visit

President George H.W. Bush steps aside for Great Britain's Queen Elizabeth II to address the crowd attending a welcoming ceremony at the White House, May 14, 1991.

Bush and the cash register

President George H. W. Bush pushes the keys on a cash register under the watchful eyes of Leo Hardy, left, and Bob Graham during a visit to the National Grocers Association trade show, Tuesday, Feb. 4, 1992, in Orlando, Fla.

President George Bush

President George Bush reacts as he holds up a crying baby amidst a crowd of supporters upon his arrival on a campaign stop in Dalton, Ga., August 3, 1992.

H.W. Bush

President George H.W. Bush is pictured during a 1992 presidential campaign debate with candidates Ross Perot (shown), an Independent candidate, and Democratic nominee Bill Clinton, at the University of Richmond, Va., Oct. 15, 1992.

During the "town hall"-style debate, cameras caught Mr. Bush checking his watch, a gesture that would be replayed over and again as evidence that the president was indifferent to the audience. "I took a huge hit," he said years later.

Election rally

President George H.W. Bush acknowledges the cheers of the crowd at a rally on the eve of the 1992 presidential election in Texas, Nov. 2, 1992. The incumbent president would lose to his Democratic challenger, Bill Clinton.

Thumbs up

Former President George H.W. Bush gives a thumbs-up to reporters as he leaves Bethesda Naval Hospital in Maryland after his annual physical examination in 1993. "Clean bill of health," he said.

Ford, Clinton, Bush

President Bill Clinton is flanked by two former presidents, entertainment and golf celebrities before teeing off in the Pro-Am round of the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic golf tournament in Indian Wells, California on Feb. 15, 1995.

From left: former President Gerald Ford, Bob Hope, Mr. Clinton, tournament defending champion Scott Hoch, and former President George H.W. Bush.

Three presidents

Former President George H.W. Bush, President Bill Clinton, and former President Jimmy Carter pose for a photo during the kick-off ceremonies for the Presidents' Summit for America's Future in Philadelphia, on April 27, 1997.

Vineyard visit

Former President George H.W. Bush walks through vineyard with owner Lee Simpson, May 30, 1997.

Ryder Cup

Former President George H.W. Bush cheers on the U.S. team during the Ryder Cup at the Valderrama Golf Club, Sept. 27, 1997.

Library dedication

Former President George H.W. Bush speaks during the dedication ceremony of the George Bush Library at Texas A&M University in College Station, Texas, Nov. 6, 1997.

Son's election

Former President George Bush and wife Barbara congratulate their son Jeb at his victory party after winning the Republican gubernatorial race in Florida. Jeb Bush served as Florida's governor from 1999 to 2007.

Saudi visit

Saudi businessman Khaled al-Ibrahim, a nephew of King Fahd, dines with former President George H.W. Bush and Britain's former premier John Major at his palace in Riyadh, Jan. 20, 2000.

Republican National Convention

Former President George H.W. Bush points to friends in the crowd during the 2000 Republican National Convention in Philadelphia's First Union Center, July, 31, 2000, where his son, Texas Governor George W. Bush, would become his party's nominee for president.

With Barbara at RNC

Former President George H.W. Bush talks to his wife Barbara Bush at the 2000 Republican National Convention at the First Union Center in Philadelphia, Aug. 1, 2000.

Kuwaiti ally

Former President George H.W. Bush meets with Kuwaiti Minister of the Royal Court Sheikh Nasser Mohammed al-Sabah on Feb. 24, 2001.

Greeting U.S. troops

Former President George H.W. Bush shakes hands with the U.S. 2nd Infantry Division soldiers during a visit to Camp Casey at Dongduchon, South Korea, on Nov. 9, 2001.

A prince and a president

Former President George H.W. Bush with Britain's Prince Charles during the flypast at the re-dedication ceremony of the American Air Museum of Great Britain at the Imperial War Museum Duxford, Cambridgeshire, Sept. 27, 2002.

Bush Family Portrait

President George W. Bush, first lady Laura Bush, former first lady Barbara Bush and former President George H.W. Bush sit surrounded by family in the Red Room of the White House January 6, 2005 in Washington, DC. Friends and family joined former President Bush and Barbara Bush in celebrating their 60th wedding anniversary at a dinner. Also pictured are: (L to R) Georgia Grace Koch, Margaret Bush, Walker Bush, Marvin Bush, Jenna Bush, Doro Koch, Barbara Bush, Robert P. Koch, Pierce M. Bush, Maria Bush, Neil Bush, Ashley Bush, Sam LeBlond, Robert Koch, Nancy Ellis LeBlond, John Ellis Bush, Jr., Florida Gov. John Ellis "Jeb" Bush, Mandi Bush, George P. Bush, and Columba Bush.

Global relief work

Former President George H.W. Bush holds a young Pakistani boy at a relief camp in Islamabad, Jan. 17, 2006.

Father and son presidents

President George W. Bush waves as he walks out of the Oval Office with his father, former President George H. W. Bush, at the White House in Washington, D.C., Sept. 25, 2008.

Former presidents with Billy Graham

Former Presidents George H.W. Bush, Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter pose with evangelist Billy Graham and his son Franklin Graham before the Billy Graham Library dedication on the campus of the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association in Charlotte, North Carolina, May 31, 2007.

2008 Republican National Convention

Former President George H.W. Bush and former first lady Barbara Bush at the Republican National Convention on September 2, 2008 in St. Paul, Minnesota.

Father and sons

In this June 12, 2009 photo, former President George H.W. Bush is joined by his sons, former President George W. Bush and former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, as he speaks to reporters after his parachute jump with the Army Golden Knights parachute team to celebrate his 85th birthday in Kennebunkport, Maine.

Golf fan

Former President George H.W. Bush is pictured at the 39th Ryder Cup at Medinah Country Club on Sept. 29, 2012, in Medinah, Ill.

Houston Texans

Former President George H.W. Bush shakes hands with Houston Texans wide receiver Andre Johnson before the Texans played the Buffalo Bills on Nov. 4, 2012, at Reliant Stadium in Houston.

George W. Bush library dedication

From left: First lady Michelle Obama, President Barack Obama, former first lady Barbara Bush, former President George H.W. Bush, former President George W. Bush and former first lady Laura Bush attend the dedication of the George W. Bush Presidential Center, April 25, 2013, on the campus of Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas.

Father and son presidents

Former President George W. Bush talks to his father, former President George H.W. Bush, during the opening ceremony of the George W. Bush Presidential Center April 25, 2013 in Dallas, Texas.

Super Bowl LI

Former President George H.W. Bush and former first lady Barbara Bush arrive for the coin toss prior to Super Bowl 51 between the Atlanta Falcons and the New England Patriots on February 5, 2017 in Houston, Texas.

First pitch

Former President George H.W. Bush prepares to throw out the ceremonial first pitch before Game 5 of the 2017 World Series between the Houston Astros and the Los Angeles Dodgers at Minute Maid Park on October 29, 2017 in Houston, Texas.

World Series

Former Presidents George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush make the "play ball" announcement before Game 5 of baseball's World Series between the Houston Astros and the Los Angeles Dodgers, Oct. 29, 2017, in Houston.

George H.W. Bush

Former President, Vice President, Ambassador, Congressman and World War II Naval aviator George H.W. Bush died in Houston, Texas, on Friday, November 30, 2018. He was 94. He was survived by two siblings, five children, 17 grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.