There are a total of 120 Power Stars to find in Super Mario Galaxy. You’ll find most of them by just completing each of the game’s levels, but there are also 51 hidden Power Stars to collect throughout.

In this Super Mario Galaxy guide, we’ll tell you the location of all 19 hidden Power Stars (and six Hungry Luma Power Stars), the 24 Prankster Comet Power Stars, the 3 Luigi Power Stars, the 2 Green Stars, and the 3 Trial Galaxy Power Stars. We’ve broken these 51 Power Stars up by the Dome (observatory) and galaxy. If there’s a trick to collecting any, we’ll explain that as well.

Table of contents

Hidden Stars

These Power Stars are hidden inside normal levels. Instead of completing the level as designed, you’ll have to do something different, like going in the wrong direction or feeding an out-of-the-way Hungry Luma, to collect them. There are a total of 19 Hidden Stars (including the Hungry Lumas that appear next to the game’s six Domes).

Below, we’ll list them by the Dome the galaxy is found in.

Table of contents

Terrace Dome

There are no Hidden Stars in the Terrace Dome, but a Hungry Luma will eventually appear nearby.

Hungry Luma

Sweet Sweet Galaxy – Rocky Road

Feed 400 Star Bits to the Hungry Luma who appears outside of the the Terrace dome to reveal this galaxy. You’ll have to run across hole-filled and moving platforms to reach the end. There’s no trick to it, so just make your way carefully along.

Fountain Dome

There are two Hidden Stars in the Fountain Dome, along with the Hungry Luma next door.

Space Junk Galaxy

Tarantox’s Tangled Web – Yoshi’s Surprise Appearance

After the sequence of Pull Stars, you’ll land on a clear planet. There’s a Hungry Luma here who needs 50 Star Bits. If you need a few more, check back along the path to the beginning, and then head below the surface of the planet and look for the enemies there.

The Luma will create the Yoshi’s Surprise Appearance planet. Take out all of the Goombas wandering around on Yoshi’s face to find this star.

Battlerock Galaxy

Breaking into the Battlerock – Battlerock’s Garbage Dump

Near the beginning of the level, you’ll reach a planet made of red, yellow, greed, and blue orbs with a bomb dispenser and rolling Chomps. Use the bombs to blow up a few of the Chomps for Star Bits, and then look on the yellow part of the planet for a Hungry Luma. Feed it 30 Star Bits to reveal a new planet.

Here, you’ll have to use bombs to destroy a bunch of garbage within a 30 second time limit. Throw your bombs at the gold dots on the floor. You don’t have to be perfect here, so just aim for pretty close. Start with the ones at the back, and only grab the closest bombs.

Hungry Luma

Sling Pod Galaxy – A Very Sticky Situation

Feed 400 Star Bits to the Hungry Luma who appears outside of the Fountain Dome to unlock this galaxy. You’ll have to navigate through space using web-like Sling Pods to launch yourself around.

Kitchen Dome

There are also two Hidden Stars in the Kitchen Dome and one star reachable through the Dome’s Hungry Luma.

Beach Bowl Galaxy

Passing the Swim Test – Wall Kicking Up Waterfalls

To get this hidden star, start the level the same way as normal — by talking to the instructor, and then diving down to steal the golden shell.

Take the shell to the far side of the water from where you started, and use it to open the chest there. This will reveal a Launch Star that will take you to a planet of waterfalls.

Use the Cataquack to reach the oversized coin at the beginning. This will get you your first Ice Flower. Wall jump up the waterfalls with your new ice powers. Take out the Prickly Piranha Plant on the next level to reveal another Ice Flower.

Waterfall wall jump up to the top, and there’s another Ice Flower. Lead the Cataquack along your ice path over the water until you reach the island with the star and let it launch you up to collect it.

Ghostly Galaxy

A Very Spooky Sprint – Matter Splatter Mansion

Near the beginning of the level, you’ll pass a few bats and Pumpkinhead Goombas on your way to the titular mansion. Watch along the right side of the path for a pair of stalagmites. One of them is glowing a little. Spin to break it, and it’ll reveal a Launch Star.

On the next planet, you’ll have to stay inside spotlights that reveal (and hide) the level’s paths. Keep following along carefully until you reach the end and collect this Power Star.

Hungry Luma

Drip Drop Galaxy – Giant Eel Outbreak

You’ll need to feed the Hungry Luma that appears next to Kitchen Dome 600 Star Bits to transform it.

To collect this Power Star, use the shells you find underwater to defeat the planet’s three Gringills (giant eels).

Bedroom Dome

Bedroom Dome has three Hidden Stars and one with the Hungry Luma.

Gusty Garden Galaxy

Gusty Garden’s Gravity Scramble – The Golden Chomp

From the start of this level, while you’re riding your dandelion puff, collect all of the over-sized coins. This will give you an invincibility star just before you land on the horseshoe-shaped planet with the rolling Chomps.

Run straight along the curve of the planet until you spot the eponymous Golden Chomp. Smash it while still invincible to collect this star.

Freezeflame Galaxy

The Frozen Peak of Baron Brrr – Conquering the Summit

Follow the only path you have through this level until you pick up your first Ice Flower. Along the back wall of the pond where you pick it up, there are two fountains. Use your Ice Flower abilities to turn those into platforms and climb out of the pond area.

At the top of the wall, continue right. There’s another pair of fountains here. Space out your jumps so that you triple jump off the second fountain. You’ll reach a new ledge with a Launch Star.

From there, use the Fire Flowers to navigate your way along the rest of the path to the peak and collect your Power Star.

Dusty Dune Galaxy

Sunbaked Sand Castle – Bullet Bill on Your Back

Start this level normally until you reach the sandy planet with the blue and red crabbers and the spiky flower. Let the sand drain down until a stump becomes visible on the bottom of the planet. Ground Pound it, and collect the notes it reveals. Collecting all the notes will create a Launch Star.

On the disc where you land, use the switch to raise the central tower. Lead a Bullet Bill to the dome with the Power Star to collect it.

Hungry Luma

Bigmouth Galaxy – Bigmouth’s Gold Bait

To collect this Power Star, you’ll need to collect a gold shell and return it to the treasure chest near the beginning.

Engine Room Dome

Engine Room Dome also has three Hidden Stars and one Power Star kept by the Hungry Luma nearby.

Gold Leaf Galaxy

Cataquack to the Skies – The Bell on the Big Tree

This hidden star is near the tree where you’ll pick up this level’s first Bee Mushroom. Look for a dispenser making bubbles. Hop into one, and float up to the bell hanging on the side of the tree. When the bell spits out a line of musical notes, collect them all by blowing your bubble around to pick up your hidden Power Star.

Sea Slide Galaxy

The Silver Stars of Sea Slide – Hurry, He’s Hungry

A bit into this level, you’ll find a Hungry Luma next to a cannon you’ll use to proceed. Make sure you have a Bee Mushroom, and then feed the Luma 40 Star Bits to create a new planet. Use the cannon to reach it.

On the planet it creates, you’ll have to collect musical notes on disappearing panels. Do you best not to overlap your paths, and use Bee Mario’s flight to cross gaps. When you collect them all, the black hole at the center of the planet will become a Power Star.

Toy Time Galaxy

Mario Meets Mario – The Flipswitch Chain

On the second planet of this galaxy, you’ll need to collect Star Chips while moving around an oversized screw. Instead of taking the Launch Star you create, look for the Hungry Luma nearby. You’ll need 50 Star Bits to satisfy it.

When you reach the two interlocking rings, your job is to hit all the flipswitches while avoiding the Tox Blocks.

Hungry Luma

Sand Spiral Galaxy – Choosing a Favorite Snack

When this Hungry Luma appears in the Observatory, you’ll need 1,000 Star Bits to transform it. There are two sections in the galaxy it creates.

For the first section, just pick either the Bee or the Boo Mushroom to navigate the hallway.

In the second section, you’ll have to dodge mines as you work along a moving spiral to the Power Star in the center. There’s an invincibility star at the beginning that lets you plow through the mines without worry, but it also speeds you up a lot.

We had a lot more luck skipping the Rainbow Star and just moving slowly along the spiral.

Garden Dome

The final Dome you’ll open, Garden Dome, has three Hidden Stars in its galaxies, and one last one with the final Hungry Luma you’ll meet.

Deep Dark Galaxy

Guppy and the Underground Lake – Boo in a Box

Run through the beginning of this level normally — using the canon to pick up a Fire Flower, and then lighting the two brazers by the gate. When you reach the deep lake inside the mountain, swim all the way to the bottom. There are two shipwrecks down there.

Look around for a shell, and use it to destroy the mines surrounding one of the shipwrecks. That will destroy the ship, and reveal a Launch Star.

Use the Launch Star to reach a new planet. In the room there, you’ll need to hit a arrow to switch the gravity around four times. On the third rotation, you need to smash a crystal to let light through. On the fourth rotation, use the light to destroy the Boo and collect your Power Star.

Dreadnought Galaxy

Revenge of the Topman Tribe – Dreadnought’s Garbage Dump

Right at the very beginning of the level, run to the bottom side of the saucer you land on. Head through the pipe to find another junkyard.

This level is basically the same as Battlerock Garbage Dump. Once again, you’re aiming for those six gold dots on the ground. You’ll have to place six of them in the same amount of time. You’ll also have to place them very close to the dots to complete this level.

Melty Molten Galaxy

The Sinking Lava Spire – Burning Tide

Start this level normally, and continue until you reach the first tiny see-through planet. There’s a Hungry Luma here who wants 80 Star Bits.

The planet that Luma sends you to is mostly surrounded by lava that rises and ebbs like a (super fast) tide. The white areas on the ground are safe when the tide is the highest. Your job is to follow the paths revealed when the lava is lowest to collect five Silver Stars. That will reveal your Hidden Star.

Hungry Luma

Snow Cap Galaxy – Star Bunnies in the Snow

The Hungry Luma that appears next to the Garden Dome require 1,600 Star Bits to transform. The galaxy that it creates requires you to find and capture three Star Bunnies.

Your first step is find and hit the Flipswitches under the snow. That will open a hatch at one end of the planet where you’ll be able to collect a Fire Flower. That Fire Flower will let you destroy all the piles of snow around the planet.

One of the snowmen will reveal a Snow Bunny.

Another will reveal a shell that lets you open a treasure chest. That chest is hiding another Snow Bunny.

The third Snow Bunny is hiding in one of the holes in the ground — they’re hard to find under the snow, but you can run through the snow or use your snow cursor to reveal them. Ground Pound those holes to pop the Snow Bunny out.

The trick to catching them is to chase the into one of the pits at either end of the planet. They can’t jump back out, so you’ll be able to catch them quickly.

Prankster Comets

There are 24 Power Stars you’ll earn by completing Prankster Comet levels. While a Prankster Comet is in orbit around a galaxy, they’ll create a special version of one of that galaxy’s levels. There are five kinds of Prankster Comet that’ll you’ll encounter in Super Mario Galaxy:

Cosmic Comets require you to race against a cosmic (blue) version of yourself.

Daredevil Comets limit your health to one segment.

Fast Foes Comets speed up your enemies.

Purple Comets require that you collect all the purple coins in a level.

Speedy Comets give you a time limit for a level.

We’ll list all 24 of these Power Stars below, divided by the Domes where you’ll encounter them.

Terrace Dome

Good Egg Galaxy:

Speedy Comet // Dino Piranha Speed Run

Purple Comet // Purple Coin Omelet

Honeyhive Galaxy:

Cosmic Comet // Honeyhive Cosmic Mario Race

Purple Comet // The Honeyhive’s Purple Coins

Fountain Dome

Space Junk Galaxy:

Speedy Comet // Pull Star Path Speed Run

Purple Comet // Purple Coin Spacewalk

Battlerock Galaxy:

Daredevil Comet // Topmaniac’s Daredevil Run

Purple Comet //Purple Coins on the Battlerock

Kitchen Dome

Beach Bowl Galaxy:

Fast Foe Comet // Fast Foes on the Cyclone Stone

Purple Comet // Beachcombing for Purple Coins

Ghostly Galaxy:

Daredevil Comet // Bouldergeist’s Daredevil Run

Purple Comet // Purple Coins in the Bone Pen

Bedroom Dome

Gusty Garden Galaxy:

Daredevil Comet // Major Burrows’s Daredevil Run

Purple Comet // Purple Coins on the Puzzle Cube

Freezeflame Galaxy:

Cosmic Comet // Frosty Cosmic Mario Race — Make sure you spin and ice skate for some extra speed

Purple Comet // Purple Coins on the Summit

Dusty Dune Galaxy:

Purple Comet // Purple Coins in the Desert

Speedy Comet // Sandblast Speed Run

Engine Room Dome

Gold Leaf Galaxy:

Cosmic Comet // Cosmic Mario Forest Race

Purple Comet // Purple Coins in the Woods

Sea Slide Galaxy:

Cosmic Comet // Underwater Cosmic Mario Race

Purple Comet // Purple Coins by the Seaside

Toy Time Galaxy:

Fast Foes Comet // Fast Foes of Toy Time

Purple Comet // Luigi’s Purple Coins

Garden Dome

Deep Dark Galaxy:

Daredevil Comet // Ghost Ship Daredevil Run

Purple Comet // Plunder the Purple Coins

Dreadnaught Galaxy:

Purple Comet // Battlestation’s Purple Coins

Speedy Comet // Topman Tribe Speed Run

Melty Molten Galaxy:

Daredevil Comet // Lava Spire Daredevil Run

Purple Comet // Red-Hot Purple Coins

Luigi Power Stars

Once you (spoiler) rescue Luigi during Kitchen Dome // Ghostly Galaxy // Luigi and the Haunted Mansion, he’ll head off on his own to find some Power Stars. He, being Luigi, gets stuck every time he wanders off. He’ll mail you a photo, and you’ll have to go off to find him. There are three places he’ll go.

Terrace Dome // Good Egg Galaxy

Dino Piranha – Luigi on the Roof

The first place you’ll find Luigi trapped is back on the very first planet of the first galaxy. Head into any of the Good Egg Galaxy levels. As soon as you land, there will be a small house ahead of you. Use the orange pipe on the underside of the planet to get inside. Work your way to the top of the interior to find another orange pipe (you can also pick up a 1-Up Mushroom along the way). This one will lead you to the roof where you can rescue Luigi.

Fountain Dome // Battlerock Galaxy

Breaking into the Battlerock – Luigi under the Saucer

All the way at the end of this level, you would normally kite a Bullet Bill to a dome containing the Power Star. To find Luigi, you’ll need to kite a Bullet Bill around to the underside of the saucer.

Once Luigi is rescued, he’ll give you a Green Power Star (more on these below).

Terrace Dome // Honeyhive Galaxy

Bee Mario Takes Flight – Luigi in the Honeyhive Kingdom

Start the first mission of the Honeyhive Galaxy normally. Head up the hill to collect the oversized coin, and then drop down to the base of the waterfall to collect the Bee Mushroom. From there, head back to the very beginning of the level (by the 1-Up Mushroom).

Fly up the hill that’s on your left when you start. Run around to the left side of the tree, and walk up the narrow wall/ramp. At the top, jump and fly your way to the right.

Luigi is clinging to the tall tree right next to you on the cliff.

Green Stars

Throughout Super Mario Galaxy, there are three Green Stars. Collecting all three of them will open up a new trio of Trial Galaxies (below).

You’ll collect one Green Star from Luigi on one of his journeys — (above).

Kitchen Dome // Buoy Base Galaxy

The Floating Fortress – The Secret of Buoy Base

To get this hidden star, you’ll need play a lot with Torpedoes Ted and Bullets Bill. Dive under the water at the start, and look for a pipe covered by a dome. Lead a torpedo to it to reveal a pipe. Through the pipe, you’ll end up on the outside of the planet.

Dodge the Bills as you cross the path there. You’ll have to very carefully lead a Bill through the various obstacles to the dome protecting this Green Star.

Bedroom Dome

Dusty Dune Galaxy

Blasting through the Sand – Treasure of the Pyramid

Start the level normally, and make your way through the Pokeys (Pokies?). When you reach the platforms near the ring of rolling boulders, jump to the center platform with the Sling Star. Don’t take the star, though. Instead, run around to the underside to pick up a Rainbow Star. Use your invincibility to smash the boulders and pick up some Star Bits.

Head back to the first platform you landed on, and run to the bottom side. There’s a Hungry Luma here who needs 20 Star Bits.

You’ll head inside a pyramid-like planet. Here, you’ll have to run up and down the inside of the planet to collect five silver stars. Once you’ve got them all, you’ll get the Green Star.

Trial Galaxies

Once you’re collected all three Green Stars, there will be a new, green Launch Star in the Observatory. That will send you to a three-lobed planet where you can tackle the three Trial Galaxies. These are challenging levels using mechanics you’ve encountered elsewhere in the game.

The three Trail Galaxies are: