Watch: Grey College boys perform their war cry as Wayde van Niekerk receives his honorary “Grey Pin”

625

Grey College boys are going viral for performing their war cry in a special assembly for ex-pupil Wayde van Niekerk, who received his honorary “Grey Pin”.

South Africa (10 May 2017) – South Africa’s Olympic gold medallist Wayde van Niekerk has become a true inspiration for all, the principal of Grey College Secondary School in Bloemfontein has said.

“We, as Grey College, are extremely proud of Wayde van Niekerk’s achievement. He is humble about his achievements and a true inspiration for all,” said principal Deon Scheepers.

Scheepers also hailed Van Niekerk as a true “Grey gentleman”.

Van Niekerk, who matriculated from the school in 2011, won Team South Africa’s first gold medal at the 2016 Rio Olympics after finishing the men’s 400m final in 43.03 seconds on Monday morning.

Meanwhile, head of sport and athletics at Grey College and one of Wayde’s former teachers, Piet Viljoen said Van Niekerk had achieved his gold medal in a humble way.

“He was a very humble, well-mannered disciplined learner with a lot of faith when it came to achievements and injuries.

“He has become an example and a motivation for our pupils that it is possible to be great and to excel,” said Viljoen.

On Tuesday morning, the school held a special assembly for its pupils honouring van Niekerk with his own “Grey Pin”. The students performed an emotional war cry that is sure to give you goosebumps.

Watch the incredible videos below:

Sources: Facebook | News24

Don’t ever miss the Good Things. Download the Good Things Guy App now on Apple or Google.

Do you have something to add to this story? Please share it in the comments or follow GoodThingsGuy on Facebook & Twitter to keep up to date with good news as it happens, or share your good news with us by clicking here or click the link below to listen to the Good Things Guy Podcast with Brent Lindeque – South Africa’s very own Good Things Guy. He’s on a mission to change what the world pays attention to, and he truly believes there’s good news around us. In the Good Things Guy podcast, you’ll meet these everyday heroes & hear their incredible stories:

Or watch an episode of Good Things TV below, a show created to offer South Africans balance in a world with what feels like constant bad news. We’re here to remind you that there are still so many good things happening in South Africa & we’ll leave you feeling a little more proudly South African.

Facebook Comments

Where mind meets heart

“Courage. Kindness. Friendship. Character. These are the qualities that define us as human beings, and propel us, on occasion, to greatness.” ― R.J. Palacio