Helsinki has reduced carbon emissions per capita by 60% since 1990, according to new figures released by the City of Helsinki.

According to the figures, emissions fell dramatically across all indicators in 2023, except for transport.

Total carbon emissions were 25.4% lower overall and by 27% per capita from 2022 figures, the biggest recorded drop in numbers to date.

And total CO2 emissions have now decreased by 45% from the 1990 baseline, with the per capita figure achieving a of 60% over the same period.

In an interview, the deputy mayor of Helsinki, Anni Sinnemäki, said a key factor in the city-wide efforts to reduce carbon emissions has been the decommissioning of the Hanasaari coal-fired power plant.

The closure has enabled the energy company Helen, which is wholly owned by the City of Helsinki to halve its use of coal as a power source.

Emissions from district heating have decreased by 35% year-on-year, a new record, and emissions from electricity consumption have also decreased by 23%.

Sinnemäki said the city has now set a goal of being carbon neutral by 2030 and the remaining coal-fired plant, which is owned by Helen, is set to be decommissioned in 2025.

But she added that after 2025 traffic will remain the largest carbon emitter in the city and the municipal authority is now looking at how best to reduce emissions in this area.

“We are a really good city in terms of sustainable traffic already,” she told me. “Walking, public transport and cycling make up 74% of all journeys, while the car only represents 26%.”

Sinnemäki said the city council will be looking at ways to encourage residents to transport options with lower emissions.

Helsinki Region Transport (HSL) has already achieved its target of 30% electrification of the bus fleet ahead of schedule, and the new high-speed tram Raide-Jokeri started operating.

And a record number of tramway projects are being planned – over the next 10 years, more than 30 kilometres of new tramway will operate in Helsinki.

The share of electric cars has also increased significantly in Helsinki.

In 2023, the share of rechargeable cars was approximately 16.7% of all cars actively in traffic, a large increase from 3.4% in 2020.

She added the city council is also keen to make a difference on “Scope 3” carbon emissions, which are not directly generated in the city but still contribute to overall emissions .

For example, she said the city council has already introduced a binding target for the life cycle carbon footprint for residential buildings, which will affect the building materials and therefore decrease emissions in other locations than Helsinki

“Local leaders have a big role in sustainability and should take advantage of all the powers they have as local leaders,” said Sinnemäki.

“But to get the best results, you do need the European, national and local leaders pushing in the same direction.”

In terms of lessons learned in Helsinki, she said the key is to take a comprehensive and systematic approach.

She added setting mid-term timetable targets for 2030, as opposed to longer-term targets, has helped create a sense of urgency.

“It’s important to have an overall ambitious overall target, because it helps private sector investors, the national government, and other municipalities to understand where we are going. It also sends out a message that we are the kind of city who takes this seriously.”

In a statement, Hanna Wesslin, the City of Helsinki’s climate director said Helsinki is internationally renowned as a hub for cleantech and green energy innovation and attracts global talent and business to the city to pioneer new solutions.

“According to the new data, we are making progress with our sustainable urban transportation initiatives to date, with investments in electric vehicles, bike lanes and public transit,” said Wesslin.

“It is important that the new raft of proposals, to be announced this autumn, makes us better prepared for a future centred around a green urban mobility network.”