Timing and scope of renewal The 2014 elections once again returned a fragmented House of Representatives with 12 parties sharing the 42 seats. 28 members are elected from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 14 from the Republika Srpska (RS). The country has a tripartite presidency, with representatives from the Bosniac, Croat and Serb communities (see note 1).

The Party of Democratic Action (SDA), led by Mr. Bakir Izetbegovic - a Bosniac member of the presidency - won 10 seats in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and became the largest force overall. Other parties with representation in the Federation include the Democratic Front, newly formed by Mr. Zeljko Komsic , a Croat member of the presidency (five seats); Prime Minister Vjekoslav Bevanda's Croatian Democratic Union of Bosnia and Herzegovina (HDZ BiH) and its allies (four seats); and the Union for a Better Future of BiH (SBB BiH), led by media mogul Mr. Fahrudin Radoncic (four seats).

In the RS, the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats (SNSD) took six seats. Its leader Mr. Milorad Dodik is Prime Minister of the RS and advocates for secession from Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Union for Changes (see note 2), an opposition coalition led by Mr. Mladen Ivanic, also took six seats.

In the tripartite presidential elections, Mr. Ivanic (Serb, Party of Democratic Progress -PDP) was elected for the first time, while Mr. Izetbegovic (Bosniac, SDA) and Mr. Dragan Covic (Croat, HDZ BiH) were re-elected for a second term. The new presidency was sworn in on 17 November. As of 2 February 2015, the new government had not been formed and Mr. Bevanda leads a caretaker government.

The 2014 elections followed devastating floods in May which caused damage estimated at 2 billion euros, equivalent to 15 per cent of the country's GDP. The unemployment rate reached 44 per cent, and three quarters of young people are jobless. Many parties focused their election campaign on economic and social issues.

In accordance with 2014 amendments to the election law, candidate lists included 40 per cent of the less represented gender. The number of women elected increased from seven to nine.

Note 1:

The country's Executive branch consists of the tripartite presidency (which rotates every eight months between a Serb, a Bosniac and a Croat) and the Prime Minister (Chairmen of the Council of Ministers).

Note 2:

The Union for Change comprised the Serb Democratic Party (SDS) and the Party of Democratic Progress (PDP) - People's Democratic Movement (NDP).