SAN BERNARDINO >> Time for Change has helped more than 1,020 homeless women with housing and other problems over the last 15 years, but it expects to do that more effectively now that the San Bernardino-based nonprofit has a permanent home of its own.

The new office, at 2164 N. Mountain View Ave. in San Bernardino, gives the fast-growing organization the first administration center that it owns outright — and the first with its own bathrooms, a roof that doesn’t leak and conditions that can give confidence to potential donors, said Executive Director Kim Carter.

“It offers self-sustainability, it’s inspiring, it’s futuristic, it’s a brighter vision,” Carter said. “We’re blessed to have found a gem right in our city.”

Formerly a center for anesthesia, the location just south of Highland Avenue was nearly move-in ready. One of one its biggest draws, though, was that it’s located in the city of San Bernardino.

“The heart and soul of this organization started in San Bernardino,” Carter said. “We’re here to stay.”

The city is also one of the most in need.

In the Inland Empire, there are only 19 housing units available for every 100 families, and the city has the second highest poverty rate in the nation next to Detroit, she said, citing data from the National Low Income Housing Coalition and the U.S. Census Bureau.

“We’re not bringing homeless people here,” Carter said, stepping into a longstanding debate over whether offering services to homeless individuals is a ‘magnet’ that attracts more homeless people to the city. “They’re here. You see them on the streets — seniors, vets. What does that say about us as humans?”

Time for Change operates two emergency shelters, 13 permanent supportive housing units and the affordable housing development “Phoenix Square.” Another 25 families are helped with Eviction Prevention and Case Management, according to Time for Change.

The success rate is 95 to 98 percent, according to the foundation.

While her heart is always with San Bernardino, Carter is now looking to nationally expand the program, which already serves 11 cities.

After being chosen as one of CNN’s Top 10 Heroes in 2015 and having Time for Change broadcast nationwide on the channel, Carter has seen growing interest in the model.

Now, Carter focuses on expansion and on donors, while Associate Director Vanessa Perez handles day-to-day operations.

“We break the generational cycle so the children can thrive,” Perez said.

Perez, Carter and Jasmine Creighton, communications director, spoke in Carter’s new office, prominently stenciled with a reminder: “True Leaders don’t create followers; They create more Leaders.”

Similar inspirational sayings decorate other walls in the two-story center, including the one that greets visitors when they open the front door.

“We call it Home,” the message declares. “Others call it Hope.”