Former St. John's, UCLA coach Steve Lavin joins FOX Sports

Steve Lavin is entering his 28th consecutive year associated with college sports, previously coaching the Red Storm and the Bruins and working as a broadcaster with ESPN and ABC. (photo: Rich Barnes)

Former St. John’s and UCLA coach Steve Lavin will join FOX Sports beginning this fall with the 2015-16 college basketball season.

John Entz, FOX Sports President, Production and Executive Producer, made the announcement Monday.

“We are absolutely thrilled to welcome Coach Lavin to the FOX Sports family,” said Entz. “Steve is a successful coach and engaging teacher with great television presence. He has been a friend to FOX Sports since we began covering the Big East in 2013, and we could not be happier to bring him on full-time.”

Lavin will primarily serve as a studio analyst for college basketball coverage on FOX broadcast network and FS1, appearing on pregame, halftime and postgame shows plus the weekly FS1 program "Inside the Big East." He will also call games for FOX Sports and appear on FS1 signature programs "America’s Pregame" and "FOX Sports Live."

“It’s a true privilege to join the FOX Sports family,” Lavin said. “I'm eager to contribute as an analyst on our college basketball coverage. My 17 years of coaching experience in the Big East and Pac-12 make this opportunity with FOX Sports an ideal fit in terms of having both a familiarity and affinity for these two outstanding conferences.”

Lavin is entering his 28th consecutive year associated with college sports, previously coaching the Red Storm and the Bruins and working as a broadcaster with ESPN and ABC. From 2010 to 2015, he led St. John’s to 20 or more wins on three occasions, including NCAA Tournament appearances in 2011 and 2015. He missed the 2011-12 season while recovering from cancer treatment.

During his time leading UCLA from 1996 to 2003, Lavin guided the Bruins to six seasons with 21 or more wins, made six consecutive NCAA Tournaments, reached five regional semifinals in a six-year span, and signed two top-ranked recruiting classes.

Lavin has a career record of 226-131 (.633) in 11 years as a head coach and sixteen of his student-athletes have been drafted by the NBA.

Between his time coaching the Red Storm and the Bruins, Lavin worked at Disney Corporation from 2003 to 2010 as an ESPN/ABC college basketball and NBA Draft color commentator.