IP litigation is the firm’s largest practice area, and more than 80% of our IP cases involve patents. This deep expertise has made Quinn Emanuel the preeminent law firm in the world for patent litigation. We represent many of the world’s leading technology companies, both as plaintiffs and defendants, in their most important matters. Our clients trust us to win, and we do.

The firm has been recognized for its work in patent litigation globally including in the United States. Some of the firm’s recent accolades in the patent litigation field include:

Chambers Global 2023: Band 1 for patent litigation in Germany, USA

The firm has been ranked Tier 1 in the USA and Tier 2 in Germany for Patent Contentious by Managing IP in the IP STARS 2022 guide.

The firm has been ranked Tier 1 for patent Litigation (Full Coverage) and Tier 2 for patent litigation (ITC) by Legal 500 United States 2022.

The firm has been ranked Band 1 for patent litigation (nationwide) by Chambers USA 2022.

The firm has been ranked Tier 1 in both National and Metropolitan rankings (Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco) for patent litigation by Best Lawyers "Best Law Firms (2023 Edition)”.

Several Quinn Emanuel attorneys have been selected for patent litigation as part of the inaugural 2023 Lawdragon 500 Leading Litigators in America guide, which spotlights the most elite courtroom advocates in the nation.

The firm has been ranked in 8 jurisdictions with 21 individual attorneys recognized for 2022 by IAM Patent 1000: The World’s Leading Patent Professionals.

Patent disputes are often fought on multiple fronts, with numerous litigations proceeding simultaneously in different venues, and thus we are frequently called upon to litigate patent disputes in venues around the world. We have the leading patent litigation practice in Germany, which is the second most important venue (after the U.S.) for patent disputes globally. Recently, Chambers Europe 2023 ranked us in Band 1 for patent litigation in Germany and Legal 500 Deutschland 2023 ranked us Tier 1 for patent litigation in Germany. QE partners ranked as “national leaders” for patent litigation in Who’s Who Legal Germany 2023. The firm was shortlisted by Managing IP Awards 2021 in the “Germany: Firm of the Year – Patent Contentious (Law Firms)” category. The prestigious German legal directory, JUVE, named us the “IP Law Firm of the Year” in 2020, making our firm the only one to have won the prestigious award twice in the last decade. We were the first foreign firm to ever win this award. In 2019, BTI Consulting named Quinn Emanuel as one of the “15 Best of the Best Law Firms in IP Litigation,” and we were named a “Top Law Firm 2019 for Patent Litigation” by Wirtschaftswoche (“Business Week”). In 2018, the firm was listed as a Tier 1 firm by Benchmark Litigation in the area of Intellectual Property, and the firm received a top ranking for Patent Litigation from JUVE.

We have litigated in many different settings, including jury trials, bench trials, administrative proceedings, and arbitrations. And we have won many important patent cases both before and at trial. Our cases are venued in courts throughout the United States, including in well-known patent litigation hotbeds such as California, Texas, New Jersey, and Delaware. For each case, we make sure we know our audience and identify how best to litigate in the particular jurisdiction. Over time, this particularized approach has sometimes led us to establish a local presence in area. For example, as Texas has become increasingly important for patent litigation, we expanded our presence in the State; we opened offices in Austin and Dallas, alongside our Houston office.

Many of our cases also involve parallel litigations in the EU, and our lawyers in different offices work seamlessly with each other in these cross-border disputes, coordinating strategy to ensure efficiency and success. Our winning record in Germany, where more than two thirds of EU patent litigations are filed, is unparalleled. Those cases have involved a wide range of technologies and have often been the subject of substantial media attention. The “Smartphone Wars” and the Qualcomm v. Apple litigations are recent examples. We have represented Qualcomm, Google, Motorola, Samsung, and HTC in epic battles with Apple in Germany, as well as in the United States.

Our clients hire us because we win. We win because we focus on what matters without wasting resources on irrelevant issues that will not, in the end, persuade the trier of fact. We are known as trial lawyers and, as trial lawyers, we know what will ultimately make a difference. We have a saying at our firm: “The side that figures out first what will ultimately matter wins.”

Of course, that is true only in part: A client still needs experienced trial lawyers that know how to try the case. No firm has as much trial experience – as successful trial experience – in patent cases than we do.

We have won many IP trials representing companies as plaintiff, including what was at the time the largest jury verdicts in the history of California and Massachusetts. We are equally adept at winning trials when our clients are defendants. For example, we are one of the few law firms to have obtained multiple defense verdicts in the Eastern District of Texas.

Large and small companies trust us because we have more patent-related experience than nearly any other law firm in the world. More than 250 of our lawyers are experienced IP litigators. More than 150 of our litigators are scientists or engineers, with degrees and professional backgrounds that our clients need, including:

Physics, chemistry, pharmacology, molecular biology, biochemistry, genetics and immunology, computer science, software and database design and information systems, missile guidance systems, and numerous types of engineering: civil, materials science, chemical, biochemical, electrical, environmental, industrial, mechanical, automotive, aeronautical, and nuclear.

This diversity of knowledge and experience enables us to quickly learn even the most complex technologies. And because we try so many cases, we have mastered the art of explaining complex technologies to judges and juries that do not have technical backgrounds.

We have experience with a wide range of technologies, including computer architecture, enterprise and consumer software, network systems, error correction codes, high-power metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors (MOSFETS), DRAMs, semiconductor fabrication processes, database architectures, flash and computer memory devices, computer graphics, MPEG compression techniques and devices, set-top boxes, satellite, DSL and voiceband modem technology, television remotes, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, biomedical products, plasmas and LCD displays, microprocessor architectures, automated gaming systems, semiconductor image scanning and inspection equipment, MRI technologies, hazardous waste remediation equipment, home banking systems, wind turbines, monoclonal antibodies, electronic controls, automotive technologies, consumer packaging, chemical adhesives, building materials, balloon dilatation catheters, fiber optic communications, cellular communications, radio frequency identification systems, smart battery technology, night vision systems, inertial navigations systems, aircraft safety systems, industrial automation and direct broadcast satellite systems. There is no technology that is too complex for our attorneys to understand and effectively prosecute to judges and juries.

We have represented clients in patent litigation on a fixed or contingent fee basis in appropriate cases.

Representative Patent Clients

Abbott Labs

Activision

Aliph (aka Jawbone)

Alliance Atlantis

ALZA Corp.

American Express Company

AOL

Applied Materials

Avery Dennison

Bally Technologies

Belkin

Bio-Rad

Borland Software

Cablevision

Caltech

Catalina Marketing

Charter Communications

Cisco

Coinbase

Connetics Corp./Stiefel Laboratories

D-Link

Dassault

Dexcom

DIRECTV

DreamWorks Animation SKG

DreamWorks Studios

EKR Therapeutics, Inc.

Electromagnetic Geo Services

Electronic Arts

Epson America, Inc.

Epson Portland Inc.

Forest Laboratories, Inc.

Fox

Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.

Genentech

General Electric

GlaxoSmithKline

Google

Harbor Freight Tools

H. Lundbeck A/S

HTC Corp.

IAC Search and Media

IBM

IDEC Pharmaceuticals

Intuit

Johnson & Johnson

Johnson Controls

KeyMe

Kraft Foods

KV Pharmaceutical

Lockheed Martin

Macrovision

MediaTek

Micron

Monsanto

Motorola

NantWorks

Napster

Netgear

NetSuite

Northrop Grumman Corp.

Nuance

NVIDIA Corporation

Oppo Digital Corp.

Oracle

Qualcomm

RealNetworks

Recording Industry Association of America

Roche Molecular Systems

Samsung

Seiko Epson

Shell Oil

Sony

Stiefel

Surgetech

Symantec

Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corp (TSMC)

Teledyne

Tredegar Corp. / Tredegar Film Products Corp.

Toshiba Corporation

The Dow Chemical Company

The Walt Disney Company

Verkada

Yahoo!

Zynga, Inc.

Representative Pharmaceutical/Life Science Patent Clients