Motives for writing constitution, Source of constitutional authority, Preamble

Preamble

Human dignity, Type of government envisioned, Judicial independence

The PEOPLE OF SRI LANKA having, by their Mandate freely expressed and granted on the Sixth day of the waxing moon in the month of Adhi Nikini in the year Two Thousand Five Hundred and Twenty one of the Buddhist Era (being Thursday the Twenty first day of the month of July in the year One Thousand Nine Hundred and Seventy seven), entrusted to and empowered their Representatives elected on that day to draft, adopt and operate a new Republican Constitution in order to achieve the goals of a DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC, and having solemnly resolved by the grant of such Mandate and the confidence reposed in their said Representatives who were elected by an overwhelming majority, to constitute SRI LANKA into a DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC whilst ratifying the immutable republican principles of REPRESENTATIVE DEMOCRACY and assuring to all peoples FREEDOM, EQUALITY, JUSTICE, FUNDAMENTAL HUMAN RIGHTS and the INDEPENDENCE OF THE JUDICIARY as the intangible heritage that guarantees the dignity and well-being of succeeding generations of the People of SRI LANKA and of all the people of the World, who come to share with those generations the effort of working for the creation and preservation of a JUSTAND FREE SOCIETY:

WE, THE FREELY ELECTED REPRESENTATIVES OF THE PEOPLE OF SRI LANKA, in pursuance of such Mandate, humbly acknowledging our obligations to our People and gratefully remembering their heroic and unremitting struggle to regain and preserve their rights and privileges so that the Dignity and Freedom of the Individual may be assured, Just, Social, Economic and Cultural Order attained, the Unity of the Country restored, and Concord established with other Nations,

do hereby adopt and enact

this

CONSTITUTION

as the

SUPREME LAW

of the

DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

CHAPTER I. THE PEOPLE, THE STATE AND SOVEREIGNTY

Type of government envisioned

1. The State

Sri Lanka (Ceylon) is a Free, Sovereign, Independent and Democratic Socialist Republic and shall be known as the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

2. Unitary State

The Republic of Sri Lanka is a Unitary State.

3. Sovereignty of the People

In the Republic of Sri Lanka sovereignty is in the People and is inalienable. Sovereignty includes the powers of government, fundamental rights and the franchise.

4. Exercise of Sovereignty

The Sovereignty of the People shall be exercised and enjoyed in the following manner:–

Referenda

the legislative power of the People shall be exercised by Parliament, consisting of elected representatives of the People and by the People at a Referendum;

the executive power of the People, including the defence of Sri Lanka, shall be exercised by the President of the Republic elected by the People;

the judicial power of the People shall be exercised by Parliament through courts, tribunals and institutions created and established, or recognized, by the Constitution, or created and established by law, except in regard to matters relating to the privileges, immunities and powers of Parliament and of its Members, wherein the judicial power of the People may be exercised directly by Parliament according to law;

the fundamental rights which are by the Constitution declared and recognized shall be respected, secured and advanced by all the organs of government and shall not be abridged, restricted or denied, save in the manner and to the extent hereinafter provided; and

Referenda

the franchise shall be exercisable at the election of the President of the Republic and of the Members of Parliament and at every Referendum by every citizen who has attained the age of eighteen years and who, being qualified to be an elector as hereinafter provided, has his name entered in the register of electors.

5. Territory of the Republic

The territory of the Republic of Sri Lanka shall consist of the twenty-five administrative districts, the names of which are set out in the First Schedule and its territorial waters:

Provided that such administrative districts may be subdivided or amalgamated so as to constitute different administrative districts, as Parliament may by resolution determine.

National flag

6. The National Flag

The National Flag of the Republic of Sri Lanka shall be the Lion Flag depicted in the Second Schedule.

National anthem

7. The National Anthem

The National Anthem of the Republic of Sri Lanka shall be “Sri Lanka Matha”, the words and music of which are set out in the Third Schedule.

8. The National Day

The National Day of the Republic of Sri Lanka shall be the fourth day of February.

CHAPTER II. BUDDHISM

God or other deities, Official religion

The Republic of Sri Lanka shall give to Buddhism the foremost place and accordingly it shall be the duty of the State to protect and foster the Buddha Sasana, while assuring to all religions the rights granted by Articles 10 and 14(1)(e).

CHAPTER III. FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS

Freedom of religion, Freedom of opinion/thought/conscience

10. Freedom of thought, conscience and religion

Every person is entitled to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, including the freedom to have or to adopt a religion or belief of his choice.

Prohibition of torture, Prohibition of cruel treatment

11. Freedom from torture

No person shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.

General guarantee of equality

12. Right to equality

13. Freedom from arbitrary arrest, detention and punishment, and prohibition of retrospective penal legislation

14. Freedom of speech, assembly, association, occupation, movement etc

Every citizen is entitled to –

Freedom of press, Freedom of expression

the freedom of speech and expression including publication;

Freedom of assembly

the freedom of peaceful assembly;

Freedom of association

the freedom of association;

Right to join trade unions

the freedom to form and join a trade union;

the freedom, either by himself or in association with others, and either in public or in private, to manifest his religion or belief in worship, observance, practice and teaching;

the freedom by himself or in association with others to enjoy and promote his own culture and to use his own language;

Right to choose occupation, Right to establish a business

the freedom to engage by himself or in association with others in any lawful occupation, profession, trade, business or enterprise;

Freedom of movement

the freedom of movement and of choosing his residence within Sri Lanka; and

the freedom to return to Sri Lanka.

A person who, not being a citizen of any other country, has been permanently and legally resident in Sri Lanka immediately prior to the commencement of the Constitution and continues to be so resident shall be entitled, for a period of ten years from the commencement of the Constitution, to the rights declared and recognized by paragraph (1) of this Article.

Right to information

14A. Right of access to information

Every citizen shall have the right of access to any information as provided for by law, being information that is required for the exercise or protection of a citizen’s right held by-

the State, a Ministry or any Government Department or any statutory body established or created by or under any law;

any Ministry of a Minster of the Board of Ministers of a Province or any Department or any statutory body established or created by a statute of a Provincial Council;

any local authority; and

any other person, who is in possession of such information relating to any institution referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) (b) or (c) of this paragraph.

Right to protect one's reputation

No restrictions shall be placed on the right declared and recognized by this Article, other than such restrictions prescribed by law as are necessary in a democratic society, in the interests of national security, territorial integrity or public safety, for the prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morals and of the reputation or the rights of others, privacy, prevention of contempt of court, protection of parliamentary privilege, for preventing the disclosure of information communicated in confidence, or for maintaining the authority and impartiality of the judiciary.

In this Article, “citizen” includes a body whether incorporated or unincorporated, if not less than three-fourths of the members of such body are citizens.

15. Restrictions on fundamental rights

The exercise and operation of the fundamental rights declared and recognized by Articles 13(5) and 13(6) shall be subject only to such restrictions as may be prescribed by law in the interests of national security. For the purposes of this paragraph “law” includes regulations made under the law for the time being relating to public security.

The exercise and operation of the fundamental right declared and recognized by Article 14(1)(a) shall be subject to such restrictions as may be prescribed by law in the interests of racial and religious harmony or in relation to parliamentary privilege, contempt of court, defamation or incitement to an offence.

The exercise and operation of the fundamental right declared and recognized by Article 14(1)(b) shall be subject to such restrictions as may be prescribed by law in the interests of racial and religious harmony.

The exercise and operation of the fundamental right declared and recognized by Article 14(1)(c) shall be subject to such restrictions as may be prescribed by law in the interests of racial and religious harmony or national economy.

The exercise and operation of the fundamental right declared and recognized by Article 14(1)(g) shall be subject to such restrictions as may be prescribed by law in the interests of national economy or in relation to –

the professional, technical, academic, financial and other qualifications necessary for practising any profession or carrying on any occupation, trade, business or enterprise and the licensing and disciplinary control of the person entitled to such fundamental right; and

the carrying on by the State, a State agency or a public corporation of any trade, business, industry, service or enterprise whether to the exclusion, complete or partial, of citizens or otherwise.

The exercise and operation of the fundamental right declared and recognized by Article 14(1)(h) shall be subject to such restrictions as may be prescribed by law in the interests of national economy.

The exercise and operation of all the fundamental rights declared and recognized by Articles 12, 13(1), 13(2) and 14 shall be subject to such restrictions as may be prescribed by law in the interests of national security, public order and the protection of public health or morality, or for the purpose of securing due recognition and respect for the rights and freedoms of others, or of meeting the just requirements of the general welfare of a democratic society. For the purposes of this paragraph “law” includes regulations made under the law for the time being relating to public security.

The exercise and operation of the fundamental rights declared and recognized by Articles 12(1), 13 and 14 shall, in their application to the members of the Armed Forces, Police Force and other Forces charged with the maintenance of public order, be subject to such restrictions as may be prescribed by law in the interests of the proper discharge of their duties and the maintenance of discipline among them.

16. Existing written law and unwritten law to continue in force

All existing written law and unwritten law shall be valid and operative notwithstanding any inconsistency with the preceding provisions of this Chapter.

The subjection of any person on the order of a competent court to any form of punishment recognized by any existing written law shall not be a contravention of the provisions of this Chapter.

Ultra-vires administrative actions

17. Remedy for the infringement of fundamental rights by executive action

Every person shall be entitled to apply to the Supreme Court, as provided by Article 126, in respect of the infringement or imminent infringement, by executive or administrative action, of a fundamental right to which such person is entitled under the provisions of this Chapter.

CHAPTER IV. LANGUAGE

Official or national languages

18. Official Language

The Official Language of Sri Lanka shall be Sinhala.

Tamil shall also be an official language.

English shall be the link language.

Parliament shall by law provide for the implementation of the provisions of this Chapter.

Official or national languages

19. National Languages

The National Languages of Sri Lanka shall be Sinhala and Tamil.

20. Use of National Languages in Parliament, Provincial Councils and Local Authorities

A Member of Parliament or a member of a Provincial Council or a Local Authority shall be entitled to perform his duties and discharge his functions in Parliament or in such Provincial Council or Local Authority in either of the National Languages.

21. Medium of instruction

22. Languages of Administration

23. Language of Legislation

24. Languages of the courts

25. Provision for adequate facilities for use of languages provided for in this Chapter

The State shall provide adequate facilities for the use of the languages provided for in this Chapter.

25A. Provision of any law inconsistent with this Chapter deemed to be repealed

In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of any law and the provisions of this Chapter, the provisions of this Chapter shall prevail.

Requirements for birthright citizenship

CHAPTER V. CITIZENSHIP

26. Citizenship of Sri Lanka

CHAPTER VI. DIRECTIVE PRINCIPLES OF STATE POLICY AND FUNDAMENTAL DUTIES

27. Directive Principles of State Policy

The Directive Principles of State Policy herein contained shall guide Parliament, the President and the Cabinet of Ministers in the enactment of laws and the governance of Sri Lanka for the establishment of a just and free society.

The State is pledged to establish in Sri Lanka a Democratic Socialist Society, the objectives of which include –

the full realization of the fundamental rights and freedoms of all persons;

the promotion of the welfare of the People by securing and protecting as effectively as it may, a social order in which justice (social, economic and political) shall guide all the institutions of the national life;

Right to rest and leisure, Right to reasonable standard of living, Right to culture, Right to shelter

the realization by all citizens of an adequate standard of living for themselves and their families, including adequate food, clothing and housing, the continuous improvement of living conditions and the full enjoyment of leisure and social and cultural opportunities;

the rapid development of the whole country by means of public and private economic activity and by laws prescribing such planning and controls as may be expedient for directing and co-ordinating such public and private economic activity towards social objectives and the public weal;

Mentions of social class

the equitable distribution among all citizens of the material resources of the community and the social product, so as best to subserve the common good;

the establishment of a just social order in which the means of production, distribution and exchange are not concentrated and centralised in the State, State agencies or in the hands of a privileged few, but are dispersed among and owned by, all the People of Sri Lanka;

Right to development of personality

raising the moral and cultural standards of the People and ensuring the full development of human personality; and

Access to higher education

the complete eradication of illiteracy and the assurance to all persons of the right to universal and equal access to education at all levels.

The State shall safeguard the independence, sovereignty, unity and the territorial integrity of Sri Lanka.

The State shall strengthen and broaden the democratic structure of government and the democratic rights of the People by decentralising the administration and by affording all possible opportunities to the People to participate at every level in national life and in government.

The State shall strengthen national unity by promoting co-operation and mutual confidence among all sections of the People of Sri Lanka, including the racial, religious, linguistic and other groups and shall take effective steps in the fields of teaching, education and information in order to eliminate discrimination and prejudice.

The State shall ensure equality of opportunity to citizens, so that no citizen shall suffer any disability on the ground of race, religion, language, caste, sex, political opinion or occupation.

The State shall eliminate economic and social privilege and disparity and the exploitation of man by man or by the State.

The State shall ensure that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth and the means of production to the common detriment.

The State shall ensure social security and welfare.

Protection of language use, Right to culture

The State shall assist the development of the cultures and the languages of the People.

The State shall create the necessary economic and social environment to enable people of all religious faiths to make a reality of their religious principles.

Right to found a family

The State shall recognize and protect the family as the basic unit of society.

State support for children, Rights of children

The State shall promote with special care the interests of children and youth, so as to ensure their full development, physical, mental, moral, religious and social, and to protect them from exploitation and discrimination.

Protection of environment

The State shall protect, preserve and improve the environment for the benefit of the community.

The State shall promote international peace, security and cooperation, and the establishment of a just and equitable international economic and social order and shall endeavour to foster respect for international law and treaty obligations in dealings among nations.

28. Fundamental duties

The exercise and enjoyment of rights and freedoms are inseparable from the performance of duties and obligations and accordingly it is the duty of every person in Sri Lanka –

Duty to obey the constitution

to uphold and defend the Constitution and the law;

to further the national interest and to foster national unity;

Duty to work

to work conscientiously in his chosen occupation;

to preserve and protect public property and to combat misuse and waste of public property;

to respect the rights and freedoms of others; and

Protection of environment

to protect nature and conserve its riches.

29. Principles of State Policy and fundamental duties not justifiable

The provisions of this Chapter do not confer or impose legal rights or obligations and are not enforceable in any court or tribunal. No question of inconsistency with such provisions shall be raised in any court or tribunal.

CHAPTER VII. THE EXECUTIVE - The President of the Republic

30. The President of the Republic

Name/structure of executive(s), Designation of commander in chief

There shall be a President of the Republic of Sri Lanka, who is the Head of the State, the Head of the Executive and of the Government and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces.

Head of state term length, Head of state selection

The President of the Republic shall be elected by the People and shall hold office for a term of five years.

32. Assumption of office

Oaths to abide by constitution

The person elected or succeeding to the office of President shall assume office upon taking and subscribing the oath or making and subscribing the affirmation, set out in the Fourth Schedule, in Sri Lanka before the Chief Justice or any other Judge of the Supreme Court.

Upon such assumption of office the President shall cease to hold any other office created or recognized by the Constitution and if he is a Member of Parliament, shall vacate his seat in Parliament. The President shall not hold any other office or place of profit whatsoever.

The President shall, by virtue of his office attend Parliament once in every three months. In the discharge of this function the President shall be entitled to all the privileges, immunities and powers of a Member of Parliament, other than the entitlement to vote, and shall not be liable for any breach of the privileges of Parliament or of its members.

The President shall by virtue of his office, also have the right to address and send messages to Parliament.

Head of state powers

33. Duties, powers and functions of the President

It shall be the duty of the President to-

ensure that the Constitution is respected and upheld;

promote national reconciliation and integration;

ensure and facilitate the proper functioning of the Constitutional Council and the institutions referred to in Chapter VIIA; and

Referenda

on the advice of the Election Commission, ensure the creation of proper conditions for the conduct of free and fair elections and referenda.

In addition to the powers, duties and functions expressly conferred or imposed on, or assigned to the President by the Constitution or other written law, the President shall have the power –

to make the Statement of Government Policy in Parliament at the commencement of each session of Parliament;

to preside at ceremonial sittings of Parliament;

Dismissal of the legislature

to summon, prorogue and dissolve Parliament;

Foreign affairs representative

to receive and recognize, and to appoint and accredit, Ambassadors, High Commissioners, Plenipotentiaries and other diplomatic agents;

to appoint as President’s Counsel, attorneys-at-law who have reached eminence in the profession and have maintained high standards of conduct and professional rectitude. Every President’s Counsel appointed under this paragraph shall be entitled to all such privileges as were hitherto enjoyed by Queen’s Counsel;

to keep the Public Seal of the Republic, and to make and execute under the Public Seal, the acts of appointment of the Prime Minister and other Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Chief Justice and other judges of the Supreme Court, the President of the Court of Appeal and other judges of the Court of Appeal, and such grants and dispositions of lands and other immovable property vested in the Republic as the President is by law required or empowered to do, and to use the Public Seal for sealing all things whatsoever that shall pass that Seal;

Power to declare/approve war

to declare war and peace; and

International law

to do all such acts and things, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution or written law, as by international law, custom or usage the President is authorized or required to do.

33A. President to be responsible to Parliament

The President shall be responsible to Parliament for the due exercise, performance and discharge of his powers, duties and functions under the Constitution and any written law, including the law for the time being relating to public security.

Power to pardon

34. Grant of pardon

35. Immunity of President from suit

36. Salary and Pension

Within one month of the commencement of the Constitution, Parliament shall by resolution determine the salary, allowances and pension entitlement of the holders of the office of President. Such pension shall be in addition to any other pension to which such person is entitled by virtue of any prior service.

Upon the assumption of the office of President the holder of such office shall become entitled to the receipt of such salary and allowances and thereafter, of such pension as may be determined by Parliament. Any subsequent amendment, repeal or replacement of this Article and any subsequent law or any provision thereof inconsistent with this Article shall not have retrospective operation.

The salary, allowances and pension of the President shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.

Parliament may by resolution increase, but shall not reduce, the salary, allowances or pension entitlement of the holders of the office of President.

37. Exercise, performance and discharge of powers, duties and functions of the President by the Prime Minister

38. Vacation of office by President

The office of President shall become vacant –

upon his death;

if he resigns his office by a writing under his hand addressed to the Speaker;

if he ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

if the person elected as President willfully fails to assume office within two weeks from the date of commencement of his term of office;

if he is removed from office as provided in the next succeeding paragraph; or

Supreme court powers

if the Supreme Court in the exercise of its powers under Article 130(a) determines that his election as President was void and does not determine that any other person was duly elected as President.

Head of state removal, Supreme court powers

2

Any Member of Parliament may, by a writing addressed to the Speaker, give notice of a resolution alleging that the President is permanently incapable of discharging the functions of his office by reason of mental or physical infirmity or that the president has been guilty of –

intentional violation of the Constitution,

treason,

bribery,

misconduct or corruption involving the abuse of the powers of his office, or

any offence under any law, involving moral turpitude and setting out full particulars of the allegation or allegations made and seeking an inquiry and report thereon by the Supreme Court.

No notice of such resolution shall be entertained by the Speaker or placed on the Order Paper of Parliament unless it complies with the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) and –

such notice of resolution is signed by not less than two-thirds of the whole number of Members of Parliament; or

such notice of resolution is signed by not less than one-half of the whole number of Members of Parliament and the Speaker is satisfied that such allegation or allegations merit inquiry and report by the Supreme Court.

Where such resolution is passed by not less than two-thirds of the whole number of Members (including those not present) voting in its favour, the allegation or allegations contained in such resolution shall be referred by the Speaker to the Supreme Court for inquiry and report.

The Supreme Court shall, after due inquiry at which the President shall have the right to appear and to be heard, in person or by an attorney-at-law, make a report of its determination to Parliament together with the reasons therefor.

Where the Supreme Court reports to Parliament that in its opinion the President is permanently incapable of discharging the functions of his office by reason of mental or physical infirmity or that the President has been guilty of any of the other allegations contained in such resolution, as the case may be, Parliament may by a resolution passed by not less than two-thirds of the whole number of Members (including those not present) voting in its favour remove the President from office.

39. Determination by the Supreme Court that the President was not duly elected or the election of the President was void

40. Vacation of office by President and election of succeeding President

1

The provisions of the Constitution relating to the President (other than the provisions of paragraph (2) of Article 32) shall apply, in so far as they can be applied, to an acting President.

Parliament shall by law provide for all matters relating to the procedure for the election of the President by Parliament and all other matters necessary or incidental thereto.

41. President's staff

Advisory bodies to the head of state

CHAPTER VIIA. THE CONSTITUTIONAL COUNCIL

41B. Council to recommend appointments

SCHEDULE TO THE ARTICLE

The Election Commission.

The Public Service Commission.

The National Police Commission.

The Audit Service Commission.

Human rights commission

The Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka.

The Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption.

The Finance Commission.

The Delimitation Commission.

The National Procurement Commission.

41C. Council to approve appointments

SCHEDULE TO THE ARTICLE

PART I

The Chief Justice and the Judges of the Supreme Court.

The President and the Judges of the Court of Appeal.

The Members of the Judicial Service Commission, other than the Chairman.

PART II

The Attorney-General.

The Auditor-General.

The Inspector-General of Police.

The Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration (Ombudsman).

The Secretary-General of Parliament.

41D. Secretary-General and other officers of the Council

There shall be a Secretary-General to the Council who shall be appointed by the Council for a term of five years. Upon the expiration of his term of office, the Secretary-General shall be eligible for reappointment.

The Council may appoint such officers as it considers necessary for the discharge of its functions, on such terms and conditions as shall be determined by the Council.

41E. Meetings of the Council

The Council shall meet at least twice every month, and as often as may be necessary to discharge the functions assigned to the Council by the provisions of this Chapter or by any law, and such meetings shall be summoned by the Secretary-General to the Council on the direction of the Chairman of the Council.

The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Council and in the absence of the Chairman, the Prime Minister, and in the absence of the Prime Minister, the Leader of the Opposition shall preside at the meetings of the Council.

The quorum for any meeting of the Council shall be five members.

The Council shall endeavour to make every recommendation, approval or decision it is required to make by unanimous decision and in the absence of an unanimous decision, no recommendation, approval or decision made by the Council shall be valid, unless supported by not less than five members of the Council present at such meeting.

The Chairman or the other member presiding shall not have an original vote, but in the event of an equality of votes on any question for decision at any meeting of the Council, the Chairman or other member presiding at such meeting, shall have a casting vote.

The procedure in regard to meetings of the Council and the transaction of business at such meetings shall be determined by the Council, including procedures to be followed in regard to the recommendation or approval of persons suitable for any appointment under Article 41B or Article 41C.

Any member of the Council appointed under sub-paragraphs (d), (e), or (f) of paragraph (1) of Article 41A, who without obtaining prior leave of the Council absents himself from three consecutive meetings of the Council, shall be deemed to have vacated office with effect from the date of the third of such meetings.

The Council shall have the power to act notwithstanding the fact that it has not been fully constituted or that there is a vacancy in its membership, and no act, proceeding or decision of the Council shall be or deemed to be invalid by reason only of the fact that the Council has not been fully constituted or that there has been a vacancy in its membership or that there has been any defect in the appointment of a member.

41F. Continuation in office of the members of the Council

Notwithstanding the expiration of the term of office of the members of the Council or of the members of any Commission specified in the Schedule to Article 41B, the members of the Council or of such other Commission shall continue in office until the assumption of office by the new members of the Council or of such other Commission.

41G. Powers and duties of the Council

The Council shall, once in every three months, submit to the President a report of its activities during the preceding three months.

The Council shall perform and discharge such other duties and functions as may be imposed or assigned to the Council by the Constitution, or by any other written law.

The Council shall have the power to make rules relating to the performance and discharge of its duties and function. All such rules shall be published in the Gazette and be placed before Parliament within three months of such publication.

41H. Expenses to be charged on the Consolidated Fund

The expenses incurred by the Council shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.

41I. Finality of decisions of the Council

Subject to the provisions of Article 126, no court shall have the power or jurisdiction to entertain, hear or decide or call in question, on any ground whatsoever, or in any manner whatsoever, any decision of the Council or any approval or recommendation made by the Council, which decision, approval or recommendation shall be final and conclusive for all purposes.

Establishment of cabinet/ministers

CHAPTER VIII. THE EXECUTIVE - The Cabinet of Ministers

42. Prime Minister and the Cabinet of Ministers

Powers of cabinet

There shall be a Cabinet of Ministers charged with the direction and control of the Government of the Republic

Cabinet removal

The Cabinet of Ministers shall be collectively responsible and answerable to Parliament.

The President shall be a member of the Cabinet of Ministers and shall be the Head of the Cabinet of Ministers.

Head of government's role in the legislature, Head of government selection, Minimum age of head of government, Name/structure of executive(s), Eligibility for head of government

The President shall appoint as Prime Minister the Member of Parliament, who, in the President's opinion, is most likely to command the confidence of Parliament.

43. Ministers and their subjects and functions

Head of state powers

The President shall, in consultation with the Prime Minister, where he considers such consultation to be necessary, determine the number of Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministries and the assignment of subjects and functions to such Ministers.

Eligibility for cabinet, Cabinet selection

The President shall, on the advice of the Prime Minister, appoint from among the Members of Parliament, Ministers, to be in charge of the Ministries so determined.

Head of state powers

The President may at any time change the assignment of subjects and functions and the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers. Such changes shall not affect the continuity of the Cabinet of Ministers and the continuity of its responsibility to Parliament.

44. Ministers who are not members of the Cabinet of Ministers

The President may, on the advice of the Prime Minister, appoint from among Members of Parliament, Ministers who shall not be members of the Cabinet of Ministers.

The President may, in consultation with the Prime Minister where he considers such consultation to be necessary, determine the assignment of subjects and functions to Ministers appointed under paragraph (1) of this Article and the Ministries, if any, which are to be in charge of, such Ministers.

The President may at any time change any assignment made under paragraph (2).

Every Minister appointed under paragraph (1) shall be responsible to the Cabinet of Ministers and to Parliament.

Any Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers may, by Notification published in the Gazette, delegate to any Minister who is not a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, any power or duty pertaining to any subject or function assigned to such cabinet Minister, or any power or duty conferred or imposed on him by any written law, and it shall be lawful for such other Minister to exercise and perform any power or duty delegated notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the written law by which that power or duty is conferred or imposed on such Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers.

45. Deputy Ministers

The President may, on the advice of the Prime Minister, appoint from among the Members of Parliament, Deputy Ministers to assist the Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers in the performance of their duties.

Any Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers may by Notification published in the Gazette, delegate to his Deputy Minister any power or duty pertaining to any subject or function assigned to him or any power or duty conferred or imposed on him by any written law, and it shall be lawful for such Deputy Minister to exercise and perform any power or duty delegated notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the written law by which that power or duty is conferred or imposed on such Minister.

46. Tenure of office of the Prime Minister, and the limitation of numbers and tenure of office of Ministers and Deputy Ministers

The total number of–

Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers shall not exceed thirty; and

Ministers who are not members of the Cabinet of Ministers and Deputy Ministers shall not, in the aggregate, exceed forty.

The Prime Minister shall continue to hold office throughout the period during which the Cabinet of Ministers continues to function under the provisions of the Constitution unless he –

resigns his office by a writing under his hand addressed to the President; or

Head of government removal

ceases to be a Member of Parliament.

Cabinet removal

A Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers, a Minister who is not a member of the Cabinet of Ministers and a Deputy Minister, shall continue to hold office throughout the period during which the Cabinet of Ministers continues to function under the provisions of the Constitution unless he–

is removed from office under the hand of the President on the advice of the Prime Minister;

resigns from office by a writing under his hand addressed to the President; or

ceases to be a Member of Parliament.

Notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph (1) of this Article, where the recognized political party or the independent group which obtains highest number of seats in Parliament forms a National Government, the number of Ministers in the Cabinet of Ministers, the number of Ministers who are not Cabinet of Ministers and the number of Deputy Ministers shall be determined by Parliament.

For the purpose of paragraph (4), National Government means, a Government formed by the recognized political party or the independent group which obtains the highest number of seats in Parliament together with the other recognized political parties or the independent groups.

47. Cabinet of Ministers after dissolution of Parliament

The Cabinet of Ministers functioning immediately prior to the dissolution of Parliament shall, notwithstanding such dissolution, continue to function and shall cease to function upon the conclusion of the General Election and accordingly, the Prime Minister and the Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers, shall continue to function unless they cease to hold office as provided in sub paragraph (a) of paragraph (2) or sub paragraph (a) or (b) of paragraph (3) of Article 46 and shall comply with the criteria set out by the Commissioner of Elections and shall not cause any undue influence on the General Election.

Notwithstanding the death, removal from office or resignation of the Prime Minister, during the period intervening between the dissolution of Parliament and the conclusion of the General Election, the Cabinet of Ministers shall continue to function with the other Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers as it members, until the conclusion of the General Election. The President may appoint one such Minister to exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties and functions of the Prime Minister.

On the death, removal from office or resignation, during the period intervening between the dissolution of Parliament and the conclusion of the General Election, of a Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers, the President may, on the advice of the Prime Minister, appoint any other Minister to be the Minister in charge of the Ministry of such Minister or to exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties and functions of such Minister.

Cabinet removal, Head of government replacement

48. Dissolution of the Cabinet of Ministers

49. Acting Ministers and Deputy Ministers

Whenever a Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers, a Minister who is not a members of the Cabinet of Ministers or a Deputy Minister is unable to discharge the functions of his office, the President may, on the advice of the Prime Minister, appoint any Member of Parliament to act in the place of such Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers, Minister who is not a member of the Cabinet of Ministers or a Deputy Minister.

50. Secretary to the Cabinet of Ministers

There shall be a Secretary to the Cabinet of Ministers who shall be appointed by the President.

The Secretary shall, subject to the direction of the President, have charge of the office of the Cabinet of Ministers, and shall discharge and perform such other functions and duties as may be assigned to him by the President or the Cabinet of Ministers.

51. Secretary to the Prime Minister

There shall be a Secretary to the Prime Minister who shall be appointed by the President.

The Secretary shall have charge of the office of the Prime Minister and shall perform and discharge the duties and functions of his office, subject to the directions of the Prime Minister.

52. Secretaries to Ministries

There shall be a Secretary for every Ministry of a Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers, who shall be appointed by the President.

The Secretary to the Ministry shall, subject to the direction and control of his Minister, exercise supervision over the departments of government or other institutions in charge of the Minister.

The Secretary to a Ministry shall cease to hold office upon the dissolution of the Cabinet of Ministers under the provisions of the Constitution or upon a determination by the President under Article 43 or Article 44 which results in such Ministry ceasing to exist.

For the purposes of this Article, the office of the Secretary to the President, the office of the Secretary to the Cabinet of Ministers, the office of the Auditor-General, the office of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration (Ombudsman), the office of the Secretary-General of Parliament, the Constitutional Council, and the Commissions referred to in the Schedule to Article 41B shall be deemed not to be departments of Government.

Oaths to abide by constitution

53. Official oath and affirmation

Every person appointed to any office referred to in this Chapter shall not enter upon the duties of his office until he takes and subscribes the oath, or makes and subscribes the affirmation, set out in the Fourth Schedule and Seventh Schedule.

CHAPTER IX. THE EXECUTIVE - The Public Service

54. Public Service Commission

55. Powers and functions of the Cabinet of Ministers and of the Commission

Powers of cabinet

The Cabinet of Ministers shall provide for and determine all matters of policy relating to public officers, including policy relating to appointments, promotions, transfers, disciplinary control and dismissal.

Powers of cabinet

The appointment, promotion, transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of all Heads of Department shall, vest in the Cabinet of Ministers.

Subject to the provisions of the Constitution, the appointment, promotion, transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of public officers shall be vested in the Public Service Commission.

The Commission shall not derogate from the powers and functions of the Provincial Public Service Commissions as are established by law.

The Commission shall be responsible and answerable to Parliament in accordance with the provisions of the Standing Orders of Parliament for the exercise and discharge of its powers and functions. The Commission shall also forward to Parliament in each calendar year, a report of its activities in respect of such year.

56. Committees of the Commission

The Commission may delegate to a Committee consisting of three persons (not being members of the Commission) appointed by the Commission, the powers of appointment, promotion, transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of such categories of public officers as are specified by the Commission.

The Commission shall cause the appointment of any such committee to be published in the Gazette.

The procedure and quorum for meetings of any such Committee shall be as determined by the Commission by rules made in that behalf. The Commission shall cause such rules to be published in the Gazette.

There shall be a Secretary to each Committee, who shall be appointed by the Commission.

57. Delegation of powers to a public officer

The Commission may delegate to a public officer, subject to such conditions and procedure as may be determined by the Commission, its powers of appointment, promotion, transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of such category of public officers as are specified by the Commission.

The Commission shall cause any such delegation to be published in the Gazette, including the conditions and procedure determined by the Commission for such purpose.

58. Right of appeal

Any public officer aggrieved by an order relating to a promotion, transfer, dismissal or an order on a disciplinary matter made by a Committee or any public officer under Article 56 or Article 57, in respect of the officer so aggrieved, may appeal to the Commission against such order in accordance with such rules made by the Commission from time to time, relating to the procedure to be followed in the making, hearing and determination of an appeal made to the Commission and the period fixed within which an appeal should be heard and concluded.

The Commission shall have the power upon such appeal to alter, vary, rescind or confirm an order against which an appeal is made, or to give directions in relation thereto, or to order such further or other inquiry as to the Commission shall seem fit.

The Commission shall cause to be published in the Gazette the rules made by it under paragraph (1) of this Article.

59. Administrative Appeals Tribunal

Establishment of judicial council, Administrative court selection

There shall be an Administrative Appeals Tribunal appointed by the Judicial Service Commission.

The Administrative Appeals Tribunal shall have the power to alter, vary or rescind any order or decision made by the Commission.

The constitution, powers and procedure of such Tribunal, including the time limits for the preferring of appeals, shall be provided for by law.

60. Commission not to exercise power where there is delegation

Upon delegation of any of its powers to a Committee or a public officer appointed under Article 56 or Article 57 as the case may be, the Commission shall not, while such delegation is in force, exercise or perform its functions or duties in regard to the categories of public officers in respect of which such delegation is made, subject to the provisions contained in paragraphs (1) and (2) of Article 58.

61. Procedure at meetings

The quorum for a meeting of the Commission shall be five members.

All decisions of the Commission shall be made by a majority of votes of the members present at the meeting. In the event of an equality of votes, the member presiding at the meeting shall have a casting vote.

The Chairman of the Commission shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and in his absence, a member elected by the members present from amongst themselves, shall preside at such meeting.

61A. Immunity from legal proceedings

Subject to the provisions of Article 59 and of Article 126, no court or tribunal shall have power or jurisdiction to inquire into, or pronounce upon or in any manner call in question any order or decision made by the Commission, a Committee, or any public officer, in pursuance of any power or duty conferred or imposed on such Commission, or delegated to a Committee or public officer, under this Chapter or under any other law.

61B. Savings of rules and regulations in force

Until the Commission otherwise provides, all rules, regulations and procedures relating to the public service as are in force on the date of the coming into operation of this Chapter, shall, mutatis mutandis, be deemed to continue in force as rules, regulations and procedures relating to the public service, as if they had been made or provided for under this Chapter.

61C. Interference with the Commission

Every person who, otherwise than in the course of such person’s lawful duty, directly or indirectly by himself or by or with any other person, in any manner whatsoever influences or attempts to influence or interferes with any decision of the Commission, or a Committee or a public officer to whom the Commission has delegated any power under this Chapter, or to so influence any member of the Commission or a Committee, shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand Rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years, or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Every High Court established under Article 154P of the Constitution shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine any matter referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article.

61D. Oath or affirmation of office

A person appointed to any office referred to in this Chapter shall not enter upon the duties of his office until he takes and subscribes the oath or makes and subscribes the affirmation set out in the Fourth Schedule to the Constitution.

Attorney general

61E. Appointments by the President

The President shall appoint –

Selection of active-duty commanders

the Heads of the Army, the Navy and the Air Force; and

subject to the approval of the Constitutional Council, the Attorney-General and the Inspector-General of Police,

The holders of the Offices of Attorney-General and the Inspector-General of Police shall retire from their respective Office, upon their attaining the age of sixty years.

61F. Interpretation

For the purposes of this Chapter “public officer” does not include a member of the Army, Navy, or Air Force, an officer of the Election Commission appointed by such Commission, a police officer appointed by the National Police Commission, a scheduled public officer appointed by the Judicial Service Commission or a member of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service appointed by the Audit Service Commission.

CHAPTER X. THE LEGISLATURE - Parliament

Structure of legislative chamber(s)

62. Parliament

Size of first chamber, First chamber selection

There shall be a Parliament which shall consist of two hundred and twenty-five Members elected in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.

Term length for first chamber

Unless Parliament is sooner dissolved, every Parliament shall continue for five years from the date appointed for its first meeting and no longer, and the expiry of the said period of five years shall operate as a dissolution of Parliament.

Oaths to abide by constitution

63. Official oath or affirmation

Except for the purpose of electing the Speaker, no Member shall sit or vote in parliament until he has taken and subscribed the following oath, or made and subscribed the following affirmation, before Parliament:–

“I …… do [solemnly declare and affirm/swear] that I will uphold and defend the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.”

Legislative committees, Leader of first chamber

64. Speaker, Deputy Speaker and Deputy Chairman of Committees

Parliament shall, at its first meeting after a General Election, elect three Members to be respectively the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker and Chairman of Committees (hereinafter referred to as the “Deputy Speaker”) and the Deputy Chairman of Committees thereof.

A member holding office as the Speaker or the Deputy Speaker or the Deputy Chairman of Committees shall, unless he earlier resigns his office by a writing under his hand addressed to the President or ceases to be a Member, vacate his office on the dissolution of Parliament.

Whenever the office of Speaker, Deputy Speaker or Deputy Chairman of Committees becomes vacant otherwise than as a result of a dissolution of Parliament, Parliament shall at its first meeting after the occurrence of the vacancy elect another Member to be the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker or the Deputy Chairman of Committees, as the case may be.

If Parliament, after having been dissolved, is summoned under paragraph (7) of Article 70, each of the Members mentioned in paragraph (2) of this Article shall, notwithstanding anything therein, resume and continue to hold his office while that Parliament is kept in session.

The Speaker, or in his absence the Deputy Speaker, or in their absence the Deputy Chairman of Committees, shall preside at sittings of Parliament. If none of them is present, a Member elected by Parliament for the sitting shall preside at the sitting of Parliament.

65. Secretary General of Parliament

There shall be a Secretary-General of Parliament who shall, subject to the approval of the Constitutional Council, be appointed by the President and who shall hold office during good behaviour.

The salary of the Secretary-General shall be determined by Parliament, shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund and shall not be diminished during his term of office.

The members of the staff of the Secretary-General shall be appointed by him with the approval of the Speaker.

The salaries of the members of the staff of the Secretary-General shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.

The office of the Secretary-General shall become vacant –

upon his death;

on his resignation in writing addressed to the President;

on his attaining the age of sixty years, unless Parliament otherwise provides by law;

on his removal by the President on account of ill health or physical or mental infirmity; or

on his removal by the President upon an address of Parliament.

Whenever the Secretary-General is unable to discharge the functions of his office, the President may, subject to the approval of the Constitutional Council, appoint a person to act in the place of the Secretary-General.

Removal of individual legislators

66. Vacation of seats

The seat of a Member shall become vacant –

upon his death;

If, by a writing under his hand addressed to the Secretary-General of Parliament, he resigns his seat;

upon his assuming the office of President consequent to his election to such office, either by the People or by Parliament;

if he becomes subject to any disqualification specified in Article 89 or 91;

Outside professions of legislators

if he becomes a member of the Public Service or an employee of a public corporation or, being a member of the Public Service or an employee of a public corporation, does not cease to be a member of such Service or an employee of such corporation, before he sits in Parliament;

Attendance by legislators

if, without the leave of Parliament first obtained, he absents himself from the sittings of Parliament during a continuous period of three months;

if his election as a Member is declared void under the law in force for the time being;

upon the dissolution of Parliament; or

upon a resolution for his expulsion being passed in terms of Article 81.

Immunity of legislators

67. Privileges, immunities and powers of Parliament and Members

The privileges, immunities and powers of Parliament and of its Members may be determined and regulated by Parliament by law and until so determined and regulated, the provisions of the Parliament (Powers and Privileges) Act, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply.

Compensation of legislators

68. Allowances of Members

Ministers, Deputy Ministers and Members, including the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker and the Deputy Chairman of committees, shall be paid such remuneration or allowance as may be provided by Parliament, by law or by resolution, and the receipt thereof shall not disqualify the recipient from sitting or voting in Parliament.

Until Parliament so provides, the remuneration payable to Ministers, Deputy Ministers and Members, including the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker and the Deputy Chairman of Committees, shall be the same as the remuneration paid to Ministers, Deputy Ministers and Members including the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker and the Deputy Chairman of Committees of the National State Assembly immediately prior to the commencement of the Constitution.

69. Power of Parliament to act notwithstanding vacancies

Parliament shall have power to act notwithstanding any vacancy in its membership and its proceedings shall be valid notwithstanding that it is discovered subsequently that a person who was not entitled so to do sat or voted or otherwise took part in the proceedings.

CHAPTER XI. THE LEGISLATURE - Procedures and Powers

71. Adjournment

Parliament may adjourn from time to time as it may determine by resolution or Standing Order, until it is prorogued or dissolved.

72. Voting

Save as otherwise provided in the Constitution any question proposed for decision by Parliament shall be decided by the majority of votes of the Members present and voting.

The person presiding shall not vote in the first instance but shall have and exercise a casting vote in the event of an equality of votes.

Quorum for legislative sessions

73. Quorum

If at any time during a meeting of Parliament the attention of the person presiding is drawn to the fact that there are fewer than twenty Members present, the person presiding shall, subject to any Standing Order, adjourn the sitting without question put.

74. Standing Orders

Subject to the provisions of the Constitution, Parliament may by resolution or Standing Order provide for—

the election and retirement of the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker and the Deputy Chairman of Committees, and

the regulation of its business, the preservation of order at its sittings and any other matter for which provision is required or authorized to be so made by the Constitution.

Until Parliament otherwise provides by law or by resolution, the Standing Orders of the National State Assembly, operative immediately prior to the commence­ment of the Constitution, shall, mutatis mutandis, be the Standing Orders of Parliament.

75. Legislative power

Parliament shall have power to make laws, including laws having retrospective effect and repealing or amending any provision of the Constitution, or adding any provision to the Constitution:

Provided that Parliament shall not make any law—

suspending the operation of the Constitution or any part thereof, or

repealing the Constitution as a whole unless such law also enacts a new Constitution to replace it.

76. Delegation of legislative power

77. Duties of Attorney-General in regard to published Bills

78. Publication of Bills and passing of Bills and resolutions

Every Bill shall be published in the Gazette at least fourteen days before it is placed on the Order Paper of Parliament.

The passing of a Bill or a resolution by Parliament shall be in accordance with the Constitution and the Standing Orders of Parliament. Any one or more of the Standing Orders may be suspended by Parliament in the circumstances and in the manner prescribed by the Standing Orders.

79. Certificate of Speaker

The Speaker shall endorse on every Bill passed by Parliament a certificate in the following form:-

“This Bill (here state the short title of the Bill) has been duly passed by Parliament.”

Such certificate may also state the majority by which such Bill was passed:

Provided that where by virtue of the provisions of Article or Article 83 or Article 84 or Article 123 (2) a special majority is required for the passing of a Bill, the Speaker shall certify such Bill only if such Bill has been passed with such special majority:

Provided further that where by virtue of Article 83, the Bill or any provision thereof requires the approval of the People at a Referendum, such certificate shall further state that the Bill or such provision shall not become law until approved by the People at a Referendum.

Approval or veto of general legislation

80. When Bill becomes law

Subject to the provisions of paragraph (2) of this Article, a Bill passed by Parliament shall become law when the certificate of the Speaker is endorsed thereon.

Referenda

Where the Cabinet of Ministers has certified that any Bill or any provision thereof is intended to be submitted for approval by the People at a Referendum or where the Supreme Court has determined that a Bill or any provision thereof requires the approval of the People at a Referendum or where any Bill is submitted to the People by Referendum under paragraph (2) of Article 85, such Bill or such provision shall become law upon being approved by the People at a Referendum in accordance with paragraph (3) of Article 85 only when the President certifies that the Bill or provision thereof has been so approved. The President shall endorse on every Bill so approved a certificate in the follow­ing form:-

“This Bill/provision has been duly approved by the People at a Referendum.”

No such certificate shall be endorsed by the President on a Bill –

in any case where no petition is filed challenging the validity of the referendum at which such bill was approved by the People, until after the expiration of the period within which a petition may be filed, under the law applicable in that behalf, challenging the validity of such referendum:

in any case where a petition is filed challenging the validity of the Referendum at which such Bill was approved by the People, until after the Supreme Court determines that such Referendum was valid.

Every such certificate shall be final and conclusive, and shall not be called in question in any court.

Where a Bill becomes law upon the certificate of the President or the Speaker, as the case may be, being endorsed thereon, no court or tribunal shall inquire into, pronounce upon or in any manner call in question the validity of such Act on any ground whatsoever.

Removal of individual legislators

81. Expulsion of Members and imposition of civic disability

Constitution amendment procedure

CHAPTER XII. THE LEGISLATURE - AMENDMENT OF THE CONSTITUTION

82. Amendment or repeal of the Constitution must be expressed

No Bill for the amendment of any provision of the Constitution shall be placed on the Order Paper of Parliament, unless the provision to be repealed, altered or added, and consequential amendments, if any, are expressly specified in the Bill and is described in the long title thereof as being an Act for the amendment of the Constitution.

No Bill for the repeal of the Constitution shall be placed on the Order Paper of Parliament unless the Bill contains provisions replacing the Constitution and is described in the long title thereof as being an Act for the repeal and replacement of the Constitution.

If in the opinion of the Speaker, a Bill does not comply with the requirements of paragraph (1) or paragraph (2) of this Article, he shall direct that such Bill be not proceeded with unless it is amended so as to comply with those requirements.

Notwithstanding anything in the preceding provisions of this Article, it shall be lawful for a Bill which complies with the requirements of paragraph (1) or paragraph (2) of this Article to be amended by Parliament provided that the Bill as so amended shall comply with those requirements.

A Bill for the amendment of any provision of the Constitution or for the repeal and replacement of the Con­stitution, shall become law if the number of votes cast in favour thereof amounts to not less than two-thirds of the whole number of Members (including those not present) and upon a certificate by the President or the Speaker, as the case may be, being endorsed thereon in accordance with the provisions of Article 80 or 79.

No provision in any law shall, or shall be deemed to, amend, repeal or replace the Constitution or any provision thereof, or be so interpreted or construed, unless enacted in accordance with the requirements of the preceding provi­sions of this Article.

In this Chapter, “amendment” includes repeal, alteration and addition.

Referenda

83. Approval of certain Bills at a Referendum

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the pro­visions of Article 82—

a Bill for the amendment or for the repeal and replacement of or which is inconsistent with any of the provisions of Articles 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11, or of this Article, and

a Bill for the amendment or for the repeal and replacement of or which is inconsistent with the provisions of paragraph (2) of Article 30 or of paragraph (2) of Article 62 which would extend the term of office of the President or the duration of Parliament, as the case may be, to over six years,

shall become law if the number of votes cast in favour thereof amounts to not less than two-thirds of the whole number of Members (including those not present), is approved by the People at a Referendum and a certificate is endorsed thereon by the President in accordance with Article 80.

Constitutionality of legislation

84. Bills inconsistent with the Constitution

A Bill which is not for the amendment of any provision of the Constitution or for the repeal and replacement of the Constitution, but which is inconsistent with any provision of the Constitution may he placed on the Order Paper of Parliament without complying with the requirements of paragraph (1) or paragraph (2) of Article 82.

Where the Cabinet of Ministers has certified that a Bill is intended to be passed by the special majority required by this Article or where the Supreme Court has determined that a Bill requires to be passed by such special majority, such Bill shall become law only if the number of votes cast in favour thereof amounts to not less than two-thirds of the whole number of Members (including those not present) and a certificate by the President or the Speaker, as the case may be, is endorsed thereon in accordance with the provisions of Article 80 or 79.

Such a Bill when enacted into law shall not, and shall not be deemed to, amend, repeal or replace the Constitution or any provision thereof, and shall not be so interpreted or construed, and may thereafter be repealed by a majority of the votes of the Members present and voting.

Referenda

CHAPTER XIII. THE REFERENDUM

85. Submission of Bills to People by Referendum

86. Submission of matters of national importance to People by Referendum

The President may, subject to the provisions of Article 85, submit to the People by Referendum any matter which in the opinion of the President is of national importance.

87. Parliament to provide for procedure

Every Referendum shall be conducted by the Commissioner of Elections who shall communicate the result thereof to the President.

Parliament shall by law provide for all matters relating to the procedure for the submission of Bills and of matters of national importance to the People by Referenda, the register of electors to be used at a Referendum, the creation of offences relating thereto and the punishment therefor, and, all other matters necessary or incidental thereto.

CHAPTER XIV. THE FRANCHISE AND ELECTIONS

88. Right to be an elector

Every person shall, unless disqualified as hereinafter provided, be qualified to be an elector at the election of the President and of the Members of Parliament or to vote at any Referendum:

Provided that no such person shall be entitled to vote unless his name is entered in the appropriate register of electors.

Eligibility for head of state, Eligibility for cabinet, Eligibility for head of government, Restrictions on voting, Eligibility for first chamber

89. Disqualification to be an elector

No person shall be qualified to be an elector at an election of the President, or of the Members of Parliament or to vote at any Referendum, if he is subject to any of the following disqualifications, namely –

Eligibility for head of government, Eligibility for first chamber, Minimum age for first chamber, Minimum age of head of government, Eligibility for cabinet

90. Qualification for election as a Member of Parliament

Every person who is qualified to be an elector shall be qualified to be elected as a Member of Parliament unless he is disqualified under the provisions of Article 91.

Eligibility for head of government, Eligibility for head of state, Eligibility for first chamber, Outside professions of legislators, Eligibility for cabinet

91. Disqualification for election as a Member of Parliament

No person shall be qualified to be elected as a Member of Parliament or to sit and vote in Parliament –

if he is or becomes subject to any of the disqualifications specified in Article 89;

if he –

stands nominated as a candidate for election for more than one electoral district at a General Election,

stands nominated as a candidate for election by more than one recognized political party or independent group in respect of any electoral district,

stands nominated as a candidate for election for an electoral district and before the conclusion of the election for that electoral district he stands nominated as a candidate for election for any other electoral district, or

being a Member of Parliament, except in the circumstances referred to in Article 70(7) or Article 155(4)(i), stands nominated as a candidate for election for any electoral district;

if he is the President of the Republic;

if he is –

a judicial officer,

the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration,

the Secretary-General of Parliament or a member of his staff,

a member of the Public Service Commission,

a member of a Provincial Public Service Commission,

a member of the Constitutional Council, referred to in sub-paragraph(e) of paragraph (1) of Article 41A other than any Member of Parliament,

a member of any Commission specified in the Schedule to Article 41B,

the Commissioner General of Elections,

the Auditor-General,

a public officer or a member of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service holding any office created prior to November 18, 1970, the initial of the salary scale of which was, on November 18, 1970, not less than Rs. 6,720 per annum, or such other amount per annum as would, under any subsequent revision of salary scales, correspond to such initial,

a public officer or a member of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service holding any office created after November 18, 1970, the initial of the salary scale of which is, on the date of the creation of that office, not less than the initial of the salary scale applicable, on that date, to an office referred to in item (vii) or such other amount per annum as would, under any subsequent revision of salary scales, correspond to the first-mentioned initial,

an officer of a Provincial Public Service holding any office created after February 01, 1988, the initial of the salary scale of which is, on the date of the creation of that office, not less than such amount as determined by resolution of Parliament, or such other amount per annum as would, under any subsequent revision of such salary scales, correspond to such initial,

an officer in any public corporation holding any office created prior to November 18, 1970, the initial of the salary scale of which was, on November 18, 1970, not less than Rs. 7,200 per annum or such other amount per annum as would, under any subsequent revision of salary scales, correspond to such initial,

an officer in any public corporation holding any office created after November 18, 1970, the initial of the salary scale of which is, on the date of creation of that office, not less than the initial of the salary scale applicable on that date to an office referred to in item (ix) or such other amount per annum as would, under any subsequent revision of salary scales, correspond to the first mentioned initial,

a member of the Regular Force of the Army, Navy or Air Force; or

a police officer or a public officer exercising police function;

a citizen of Sri Lanka who is also a citizen of any other country;

if he has any such interest in any such contract made by or on behalf of the State or a public corporation as Parliament shall by law prescribe;

if he is an undischarged bankrupt or insolvent, having been declared bankrupt or insolvent;

if during the preceding seven years he has been adjudged by a competent court or by a Special Presidential Commission of Inquiry to have accepted a bribe or gratification offered with a view to influencing his judgment as a Member of Parliament or as a member of the legislature prior to the commencement of the Constitution.

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (g) of paragraph (1) of this Article, the acceptance by a Member of Parliament of any allowance or other payment made to him by any trade union or other organization solely for the purpose of his maintenance shall be deemed not to be the acceptance of a bribe or gratification.

Eligibility for head of state

92. Disqualification for election as President

Every person who is qualified to be an elector shall be qualified to be elected to the office of President unless he is subject to any of the following disqualifications –

Minimum age of head of state

if he has not attained the age of thirty-five years;

if he is not qualified to be elected as a Member of Parliament under sub-paragraph (d), (e), (f) or (g) of paragraph (1) of Article 91; and

Head of state term limits

if he has been twice elected to the office of President by the People;

if he has been removed from the office of President under the provisions of sub-paragraph (e) of paragraph (2) of Article 38.

Referenda, Secret ballot

93. Election to be free, equal and secret

The voting for the election of the President of the Republic and of the Members of Parliament and at any Referendum shall be free, equal and by secret ballot.

Head of state selection

94. Election of the President

Electoral districts

95. Delimitation Commission

Within three months of the commencement of the Constitution, the President shall for the delimitation of electoral districts, establish a Delimitation Commission consisting of three persons appointed by him who he is satisfied are not actively engaged in politics. The President shall appoint one of such persons to be the Chairman.

If any member of the Delimitation Commission shall die or resign or if the President is satisfied that any such member has become incapable of discharging his functions as such, the President shall, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article, appoint another person in his place.

96. Electoral Districts

The Delimitation Commission shall divide Sri Lanka into not less than twenty and not more than twenty-five electoral districts, and shall assign names thereto.

Each Province of Sri Lanka may itself constitute an electoral district or may be divided into two or more electoral districts.

Where a Province is divided into a number of electoral districts the Delimitation Commission shall have regard to the existing administrative districts so as to ensure as far as is practicable that each electoral district shall be an administrative district or a combination of two or more administrative districts or two or more electoral districts together constitute an administrative district.

The electoral districts of each Province shall together be entitled to return four members, (independently of the number of members which they are entitled to return by reference to the number of electors whose names appear in the registers of electors of such electoral districts), and the Delimitation Commission shall apportion such entitlement equitably among such electoral districts.

In the event of a difference of opinion among the members of the Delimitation Commission, the opinion of the majority thereof shall prevail and shall be deemed to be the decision of the Commission. Where each member of the Commission is of a different opinion, the opinion of the Chairman shall be deemed to be the decision of the Commission. Any dissentient member may state his reasons for such dissent.

The Chairman of the Delimitation Commission shall communicate the decisions of the Commission together with the reasons, if any, stated by a dissentient member to the President.

[repealed]

97. Proclamation of Names etc. of Electoral Districts

The President shall by Proclamation publish the names and boundaries of the electoral districts and the number of members, which each such electoral district is entitled to return by virtue of the provisions of paragraph (4) of Article 96 in accordance with the decision of the Delimitation Commission. The electoral districts specified in the Proclamation shall come into operation at the next ensuing General Election of Members of Parliament and shall thereafter be the electoral districts of Sri Lanka for all the purposes of the Constitution and of any law for the time being in force relating to the election of Members of Parliament.

First chamber selection

98. Number of Members to be returned by the several electoral districts and their apportionment among such electoral districts

The several electoral districts shall together be entitled to return one hundred and ninety-six members.

The apportionment of the number of members that each electoral district shall be entitled to return shall, in the case of thirty-six members, be determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (4) of Article 96.

The apportionment of the number of members that each electoral district shall be entitled to return out of the balance number of one hundred and sixty members shall be determined in accordance with the succeeding provisions of this Article.

The total number of electors whose names appear in the registers of electors of all the electoral districts shall be divided by one hundred and sixty. The whole number, resulting from such division (any fraction not being taken into account) is hereinafter referred to as the "qualifying number".

The total number of electors whose names appear in the register of electors of each electoral district shall be divided by the qualifying number and each electoral district shall be entitled to return such number of members as is equivalent to the whole number resulting from the division of the total number of such electors in that electoral district by the qualifying number and the balance number of such electors, if any, after such division shall be dealt with, if necessary, in accordance with paragraph (6) of this Article.

Where the total number of members to be returned by all the electoral districts ascertained by reference to the qualifying number in accordance with paragraph (5) of this Article is less than one hundred and sixty members, the apportionment of the entitlement among the electoral districts of the balance number of members shall be by reference to the balance number of such electors and in the case of any electoral district not entitled to return a single member according to the determination made under paragraph (5), the total number of electors whose names appear in the register of electors of such electoral district, the electoral district having the highest of such balance number of such electors or such total number of such electors, being entitled to return one more member and so on until the total number of member to be returned number one hundred and sixty.

Where in making an apportionment under paragraph (6) of this Article an equality is found to exist between two or more balance number of such electors or two or more total number of such electors or any combination of them and the addition of one such elector would entitle one electoral district to return an additional member, the determination of the electoral district to which one such elector shall be deemed to be added shall be determined by lot.

The Commissioner of Elections, as soon as possible after the certification of the registers of electors for all the electoral districts, shall, by Order published in the Gazette, certify the number of members which each electoral district is entitled to return by virtue of the Proclamation under Article 97 and this Article.

For the purposes of this Article "the register of electors" means the register of electors for the time being in operation on the basis of which an election is being held.

First chamber selection

99A. Election of Members of Parliament on the basis of the total number of votes polled at a General Election

After the one hundred and ninety six members referred to in Article 98 have been declared elected at a General Election of Members of Parliament, the Commissioner of Elections shall forthwith apportion the balance twenty nine seats among the recognized political parties and independent groups contesting such General Election in the same proportion as the proportion which the number of votes polled by each such party or group at such General Election bears to the total number of votes polled at such General Election and for the purposes of such apportionment, the provisions of paragraphs (4), (5), (6) and (7) of Article 98 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply.

Every recognised political party or independent group contesting a General Election shall submit to the Commissioner of Elections within the nomination period specified for such election a list of persons qualified to be elected as Members of Parliament, from which it may nominate persons to fill the seats, if any, which such party or group will be entitled to, on such apportionment. The Commissioner of Elections shall cause every list submitted to him under this Article to be published forthwith in the Gazette and in one Sinhala, Tamil and English newspaper upon the expiry of the nomination period.

Where a recognized political party or independent group is entitled to a seat under the apportionment referred to above, the Commissioner of Elections shall by a notice, require the Secretary of such recognized political party or group leader of such independent group to nominate within one week of such notice, persons qualified to be elected as Members of Parliament (being persons whose names are included in the list submitted to the Commissioner of Elections under this Article or in any nomination paper submitted in respect of any electoral district by such party or group at that election) to fill such seats and shall declare elected as Members of Parliament, the persons so nominated.

The Commissioner of Elections shall before issuing the aforesaid notice determine whether the number of members belonging to any community, ethnic or otherwise, elected to Parliament under Article 98 is commensurate with the national population ratio and request the Secretary of such recognized political party or group leader of such independent group in so nominating persons to be elected as Members of Parliament to ensure as far as practicable, that the representation of all communities is commensurate with its national population ratio.

For the purposes of this Article the number of votes polled at a General Election shall be deemed to be the number of votes actually counted and shall not include any votes rejected as void.

100. Penalty for sitting and voting in Parliament when disqualified

Any person who-

having been elected a Member of Parliament but not having been at the time of such election qualified to be so elected, shall sit or vote in Parliament; or

shall sit or vote in Parliament after his seat therein has become vacant or he has become disqualified from sitting or voting therein,

knowing or having reasonable grounds for knowing that he was so disqualified or that his seat has become vacant, as the case may be, shall be liable to a penalty of five hundred rupees for every day upon which he so sits or votes to be recovered as a debt due to the Republic by an action instituted by the Attorney-General in the District Court of Colombo.

101. Parliament may make provision in respect of elections

102. Public officer or an officer of a public corporation not to function during period of election

When a public officer or an officer of a public corporation is a candidate at any election, be shall be deemed to be on leave from the date on which he stands nominated as a candidate until the conclusion of the election. Such a public officer or an officer of a public corporation shall not during such period exercise, perform or discharge any of the powers, duties or functions of his office.

CHAPTER XIVA. ELECTION COMMISSION

Electoral commission

103. Election Commission

There shall be an Election Commission (in this Chapter referred to as the “Commission”) consisting of three members appointed by the President on the recommendation of the Constitutional Council, from amongst persons who have distinguished themselves in any profession or in the fields of administration or education. One of the members so appointed shall be a retired officer of the Department of Elections, who has held office as a Deputy Commissioner of Elections or above. The President shall on the recommendation of the Constitutional Council, appoint one member as its Chairman.

Referenda

The object of the Commission shall be to conduct free and fair elections and Referenda.

No person shall be appointed as a member of the Commission or continue to hold office as such member if he is or becomes a member of Parliament, a Provincial Council or a Local Authority, or is or appointed a judicial officer or public officer, or is or enters into the employment of the State in any capacity whatsoever.

The provisions of the Constitution and any other law relating to the removal of judges of the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal from office shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the removal of a member of the Commission from office.

A member of the Commission who without obtaining prior leave of the Commission, absents himself from three consecutive meetings of the Commission, shall be deemed to have vacated office with effect from the date of the third of such meetings.

A member of the Commission shall hold office for a period of five years from the date of appointment, unless he becomes subject to any disqualification under paragraph (3) of this Article or earlier resigns from office by writing addressed to the President or is removed from office under paragraph (4) of this Article, or is convicted by a court of law of any offence involving moral turpitude, or if a resolution for the imposition of civic disability upon him has been passed in terms of Article 81 or is deemed to have vacated office under paragraph (5) of this Article.

The President may grant a member leave from the performance of his duties relating to the Commission for a period not exceeding two months, and may appoint a person qualified to be a member of the Commission to be a temporary member for the period of such leave. Every such appointment shall be made on the recommendation of the Constitutional Council.

A member of the Commission shall be paid such emoluments as may be determined by Parliament. The emoluments paid to a member of the Commission shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund and shall not be diminished during the term of office of the member.

All members of the Commission shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning and for the purposes of Chapter IX of the Penal Code.

104A. Finality of decisions and immunity from suit

Subject to the jurisdiction conferred on the Supreme Court under paragraph (1) of Article 126, Article 104H and Article 130 and on the Court of Appeal by Article 144 and the jurisdiction conferred on any court by any law to hear and determine election petitions or Referendum petitions–

no court shall have the power or jurisdiction to entertain or hear or decide or call in question on any ground and in any manner whatsoever, any decision, direction or act of the Commission, made or done or purported to have been made or done under the Constitution or under any law relating to the holding of an election or the conduct of a Referendum as the case may be, which decisions, directions or acts shall be final and conclusive; and

no suit or prosecution or other proceeding shall lie against any member or officer of the Commission for any act or thing which in good faith is done or purported to be done by him in the performance of his duties or the discharge of his functions under the Constitution or under any law relating to the holding of an election or the conduct of a Referendum as the case may be.

Electoral commission

104B. Powers, functions and duties of the Commission

4

5

Telecommunications, Radio, Television

The Commission shall have the power to issue from time to time, in respect of the holding of any election or the conduct of a Referendum, such guidelines as the Commission may consider appropriate to any broadcasting or telecasting operator or any proprietor or publisher of a newspaper as the case may be, as the Commission may consider necessary to ensure a free and fair election.

Radio, State operation of the media, Television, Telecommunications

It shall be the duty of the Chairman of the Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation, the Chairman of the Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation and the Chairman of the Independent Television Network and the Chief Executive Officer of every other broadcasting or telecasting enterprise owned or controlled by the State to take all necessary steps to ensure compliance with such guidelines as are issued to them under sub-paragraph (a).

The Commission shall cause the directions and guidelines referred to in paragraphs 4(a) and paragraph 5(a) to be published in at least one newspaper widely circulated, in the Sinhala, Tamil and English languages.

Every direction and guideline shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of such publication or on such later date as may be specified in such direction and guideline.

Every such direction and guideline shall, within three months from the date of publication in the Gazette, be brought before Parliament for approval. Any direction or guideline which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

Electoral commission

104C. Deployment of Police by the Commission

Upon the making of an Order for the holding of an election or the making of a Proclamation requiring the conduct of a Referendum, as the case may be, the Commission shall notify the Inspector-General of Police of the facilities and the number of police officers required by the Commission for the holding or conduct of such election or Referendum, as the case may be.

The Inspector-General of Police shall make available to the Commission the facilities and police officers specified in any notification made under paragraph (1) of this Article.

The Commission may deploy the police officers and facilities made available to the Commission in such manner as is calculated to promote the conduct of a free and fair election or referendum, as the case may be.

Every police officer made available to the Commission under paragraph (2) of this Article, shall be responsible to and act under the direction and control of the Commission during the period of an election.

No suit, prosecution or other proceeding, shall lie against any police officer made available to the Commission under this Article for any lawful act or thing in good faith done by such police officer, in pursuance of a direction of the Commission or his functioning under the Commission.

Electoral commission

104D. Deployment of Armed Forces

It shall be lawful for the Commission, upon the making of an Order for the holding of an election or the making of a Proclamation requiring the conduct of a Referendum, as the case may be, to make recommendations to the President regarding the deployment of the armed forces of the Republic for the prevention or control of any actions or incidents which may be prejudicial to the holding or conducting of a free and fair election or Referendum, as the case may be.

104E. Commissioner-General of Elections and other officers of the Commission

There shall be a Commissioner-General of Elections who shall, subject to the approval of the Constitutional Council, be appointed by the Commission on such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Commission.

The Commissioner-General of Elections shall be entitled to be present at meetings of the Commission, except where any matter relating to him is being considered by the Commission. He shall have no right to vote at such meetings.

The Commission may appoint such other officers to the Commission on such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Commission.

The salaries of the Commissioner-General of Elections and the other officers of the Commission, shall be determined by the Commission and shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.

The Commissioner-General of Elections shall, subject to the direction and control of the Commission, implement the decisions of the Commission and exercise supervision over the officers of the Commission.

The Commission may delegate to the Commissioner-General of Elections or other officer of the Commission, any power, duty or function of the Commission and the Commissioner-General of Elections or such officer shall exercise, perform and discharge such power, duty or function, subject to the direction and control of the Commission.

The office of the Commissioner-General of Elections shall become vacant –

upon his death;

on his resignation in writing addressed to the Commission;

on his attaining the age of Sixty Five years;

on his removal by the Commission on account of ill health or physical or mental infirmity; or

on his removal by the Commission on the presentation of an address of Parliament in compliance with the provisions of paragraph (8), for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.

8

The address referred to in sub-paragraph (e) of paragraph (7) of this Article shall be required to be supported by a majority of the total number of Members of Parliament (including those not present) and no resolution for the presentation of such an address shall be entertained by the Speaker or placed on the Order Paper of Parliament, unless notice of such resolution is signed by not less than one-third of the total number of Members of Parliament and sets out full particulars of the alleged misbehaviour or incapacity.

Parliament shall by law or by Standing Orders, provide for all matters relating to the presentation of such an address, including the procedure for the passing of such resolution, the investigation and proof of the alleged misbehaviour or incapacity and the right of the Commissioner-General of Elections to appear and to be heard in person or by representatives.

104F. Returning Officers

The Commission shall from time to time by notice published in the Gazette appoint by name or by office a person to be a Returning Officer to each electoral district, and may appoint by name or by office one or more persons to assist the Returning Officer in the performance of his duties.

Every Officer appointed under paragraph (1) shall in the performance and discharge of such duties and functions as are assigned to him, be subject to such directions as may be issued by the Commission and shall be responsible and answerable to the Commission therefor.

104G. Public officers

All public officers performing duties and functions at any election or Referenda shall act in the performance and discharge of such duties and functions under the directions of the Commission and shall be responsible and answerable to the Commission therefor.

104GG. Failure to comply with directions to be an offence

104H. Power of Supreme Court to issue writs

The jurisdiction conferred on the Court of Appeal under Article 140 of the Constitution shall, in relation to any matter that may arise in the exercise by the Commission of the powers conferred on it by the Constitution or by any other law, be exercised by the Supreme Court.

Every application invoking the jurisdiction referred to in paragraph (1), shall be made within one month of the date of the commission of the act to which the application relates. The Supreme Court shall hear and finally dispose of the application within two months of the filing of the same.

104J. Interpretation

In this Chapter “during the period of an election” shall mean the period commencing on the making of a Proclamation or Order for the conduct of a Referendum or for the holding of an election, as the case may be, and ending on the date on which the result of poll taken at such Referendum or election, as the case may be, is declared.

CHAPTER XV. THE JUDICIARY

Structure of the courts

105. Establishment of Courts etc

Right to public trial

106. Public sittings

Independence of the Judiciary

107. Appointment and removal of Judges of the Supreme Court and Court of Appeal

108. Salaries of Judges of the Supreme Court and Court of Appeal

The salaries of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the Court of Appeal shall be determined by Parliament and shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.

Protection of judges' salaries

The salary payable to, and the pension entitlement of a Judge of the Supreme Court and a Judge of the Court of Appeal shall not be reduced after his appointment.

109. Acting appointments

If the Chief Justice or the President of the Court of Appeal is temporarily unable to exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties and functions of his office, by reason of illness, absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the President shall, subject to the approval of the Constitutional Council, appoint another Judge of the Supreme Court, or of the Court of Appeal, as the case may be, to act in the office of Chief Justice, or President of the Court of Appeal, during such period.

If any Judge of the Supreme Court or of the Court of Appeal is temporarily unable to exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties and functions of his office, by reason of illness, absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the President may, subject to the approval of the Constitutional Council, appoint another Judge to act as a Judge of the Supreme Court or Court of Appeal, during such period.

110. Performance or discharge of other duties or functions by judges

A Judge of the Supreme Court or Court of Appeal may be required by the President of the Republic to perform or discharge any other appropriate duties or functions under any written law.

No Judge of the Supreme Court or Court of Appeal shall perform any other office (whether paid or not) or accept any place of profit or emolument, except as authorized by the Constitution or by written law or with the written consent of the President.

No person who has held office as a permanent Judge of the Supreme Court or of the Court of Appeal may appear, plead, act or practise in any court, tribunal or institution as an Attorney-at-law at any time without the written consent of the President.

111. Appointment, removal and disciplinary control of Judges of the High Court

There shall be a High Court of Sri Lanka, which shall exercise such jurisdiction and powers as Parliament may by law vest or ordain.

Establishment of judicial council

The Judges of the High Court shall –

Ordinary court selection

on the recommendation of the Judicial Service Commission, be appointed by the President by warrant under his hand and such recommendation shall be made after