Actor Christopher Eccleston has blasted BBC show Who Do You Think You Are? for dropping him because his family history was “not sexy enough”.

The former Doctor Who said he was invited on to the hit series but then dumped after researchers trawled through his working-class roots.

Christopher, 55, who was born in Langworthy, Salford, Greater Manchester, says: “I was asked to go on the show. I agreed and they started looking into my family tree. It says everything that the project went nowhere.

“They tugged aside the leaves on those branches and concluded, ‘Nothing to see here’. Generations of working-class people dismissed. Individuals with their own hopes, dreams and stories.

“Not army generals, industrialists, vaudeville singers, but factory workers, farm labourers, cleaners, nothing in any way ‘sexy’ enough for TV.”

But the actor’s family history is now the subject of his new book – I Love the Bones of You: My Father and the Making of Me – in which the Shallow Grave star stands up proudly for his roots.

He says: “No doubt if someone like me had popped up in the dim and distant, all would have been good.

"But why? My father had all my abilities, linguistically, physically and then some.

“I get that my life has been far more fulfilled than my father’s and those before him, but for me that makes him the far more interesting story.

"What do I know of life? I’m not driving stacker trucks all day at Colgate-Palmolive and then going to Bulmers and driving stacker trucks there all night.

“I’m not cleaning floors in a launderette like Mum. And yet how often is the story of the working class ever told on TV? I don’t mean the dross that is soaps.

"The answer is less and less. Working-class stories don’t fit in boxsets. They don’t fit the business model of selling to global TV.

“And yet they are the lives that talk to me, define me. They are the lives I find endlessly fascinating.”

It comes after the actor said he felt “bitter and betrayed” by the BBC over the way he left the role of Doctor Who, which had plunged him “down a well”.