Main contractor Acciona has deployed the first roadheader working on the second stage of the Western Harbour Tunnel road scheme.

At the start of this week (20 November), tunnel excavation was officially commenced on the New South Wales (NSW) Government’s Western Harbour Tunnel Stage 2 project.

The scheme will create a western bypass of the Sydney central business district. It aims to take traffic pressure off Sydney Harbour Bridge, Sydney Harbour Tunnel, Anzac Bridge and Western Distributor corridors. It will link Warringah Freeway to West Connex at the soon to open Rozelle Interchange.

The tunnel will cross underneath Sydney Harbour between Birchgrove and Waverton, and connects with the Warringah Freeway near North Sydney via a 6.5km tunnel with three lanes in each direction.

Transport for NSW awarded Acciona the A$4.24bn (£2.22bn) design and build contract for the second stage of the scheme in December 2022. It involves onstruction of the northern end of the tunnel, from Birchgrove, under Sydney Harbour, to North Sydney, and the complete tunnel fit out.

Early works on stage two commenced in May, with 23,000t of material excavated and more than 1,482m3 of concrete poured in preparation for tunnelling.

Acciona will use 10 roadheaders for the tunnel excavation works, with the first one now mobilised from Sydney’s Cammeray suburb to form a temporary access tunnel towards Warringah Freeway. It will then start digging the main tunnels, travelling south underneath the freeway.

The roadheader will cut through 1,000t of rock a day, excavating a distance of 20m to 25m per week before a tunnel boring machine takes over to tunnel under the harbour.

Acciona Australia & New Zealand chief executive officer Bede Noonan said: “Reaching this milestone is a testament to everyone’s collective hard work with our partners, Transport for NSW, and our design joint venture partners Aecom and Aurecon.”

The Western Harbour Tunnel is part of the NSW Government’s largest infrastructure programme to date.