Genre: Drama, Romance

Country: USA

Duration: 115 min.

Story: Rheinhardt, a cynical drifter, gets a job as an announcer for right-wing radio station WUSA in New Orleans. Rheinhardt is content to parrot WUSA's reactionary editorial stance on the air, even if he doesn't agree with it. Rheinhardt finds his cynical detachment challenged by a lady friend, Geraldine, and by Rainey, a neighbour and troubled idealist who becomes aware of WUSA's sinister, hidden purpose. And when events start spinning out of control, even Rheinhardt finds he must take a stand.

Genre: Drama, Romance

Country: USA

Duration: 120 min.

Story: Gigolo and drifter, Chance Wayne, returns to his home town as the accompaniment of a faded movie star, Alexandra Del Lago, whom he hopes to use to help him break into the movies. Chance runs into trouble when he finds his ex-girlfriend, the daughter ...

Style: emotional, southern gothic, intense, atmospheric, serious ...

Plot: hollywood, adultery, betrayal, drug addiction, loneliness, movie star, justice, tragedy, character study, couple relations, unlikely couple, actor's life ...

Time: 20th century, 60s

Place: florida, usa

Genre: Drama, Romance

Country: USA

Duration: 115 min.

Story: This film relates the story of a tightly connected Afro-American community informally called Colored Town where the inhabitants live and depend on each other in a world where racist oppression is everywhere, as told by a boy called Cliff who spent ...

Style: sentimental, realistic, uplifting, independent film, compassionate ...

Plot: racism, civil rights, discrimination, interracial relations, racial segregation, social differences, injustice, life is a bitch, youth, society, family life, teaching the ways of the world ...

Time: 1940s, 1950s, 50s

Place: mississippi, america, usa

Genre: Drama, Romance

Country: USA

Duration: 109 min.

Story: Simon (Bruce Davison), a student at a fictional university in San Francisco (based on San Francisco State College) is indifferent to the student protests around him, until walking in on a naked woman (Kristina Holland) in his dormitory ...

Style: political, social, serious, realistic

Plot: hippie, counterculture, vietnam war, chaos, university, marxist, anarchist, anarchy, feminism, liberal, underground, commune ...

Time: year 1970, 60s

Place: san francisco

Genre: Biography, Drama, Romance

Country: USA

Duration: 107 min.

Story: Five years after Yippie founder Abbie Hoffman goes underground to avoid a drug-related prison sentence, he contacts a reporter to get out the story of the FBI's covert spying, harassment and inciting of violence they then blame on the Left.

Style: stylized, melancholic, talky, serious, captivating ...

Plot: politics, fighting the system, justice, conspiracy, depression, biopic, revolution, mental illness, injustice, conspiracy theory, on the run, drug abuse ...

Time: 20th century, 60s, 70s, year 1968

Place: new york, usa, chicago, manhattan new york city, pentagon ...

Genre: Drama

Country: USA

Duration: 111 min.

Story: Pete St. John is a powerful and successful political consultant, with clients spread around the country. When his long-time friend and client Ohio senator Sam Hastings decides to quit politics, he is rapidly drafted to help with the campaign of the ...

Style: realistic, serious, cynical, clever, political ...

Plot: politics, political corruption, campaign, cover up, manipulation, fighting the system, society, state affairs, political intrigue, dishonesty, legal, media ...

Time: 80s

Place: usa, seattle, new york, washington d.c.

Genre: Drama, Romance

Country: USA

Duration: 106 min.

Story: In the waning months of World War II, a man and his wife are mistakenly identified as Jews by their anti-Semitic Brooklyn neighbors. Suddenly the victims of religious and racial persecution, they find themselves aligned with a local Jewish immigrant ...

Style: disturbing, psychological, sincere, thought provoking, suspense ...

Plot: racism, anti semitism, world war two, prejudice, mistaken identity, false accusation, injustice, job seeking, life is a bitch, love and romance, couple relations, society ...

Time: 1940s, year 2001, 20th century

Place: new york, usa, brooklyn new york city

Genre: Drama

Country: USA

Duration: 88 min.

Story: Out of work TV cameraman Ron Kobelski is approached by his formerly reclusive neighbor Walter Ohlinger. Ohlinger claims that he was the mysterious "second gunman" that shot and killed President Kennedy. Ohlinger has kept quiet all these ...

Style: political, suspenseful, tense, realistic, mockumentary ...

Plot: kennedy assassination, conspiracy, politics, found footage, assassination, conspiracy theory, investigation, murder, state affairs, political conspiracy, society, u.s. president ...

Time: year 2002, year 1963, 21st century

Place: dallas texas, usa, texas, america

Genre: Crime, Drama, Mystery, Thriller

Country: USA

Duration: 108 min.

Story: Harper is brought to Louisiana to investigate an attempted blackmail scheme. He soon finds out that it involves an old flame of his and her daughter. He eventually finds himself caught in a power struggle between the matriarch of the family and a ...

Style: neo noir, detective, suspense, cult classic, thrilling ...

Plot: private detective, private investigator, political corruption, russian roulette, deep south, underwater, newspaper, murder, police corruption, investigation, guard dog, marriage of convenience ...

Time: year 1975, 70s, 20th century

Place: new orleans, louisiana, usa

Genre: Drama, Romance, Thriller

Country: USA

Duration: 116 min.

Story: A prosecutor leaks a false story that liquor warehouse owner Michael Gallagher is involved in the murder of a union head, and as newspaper reporter Megan Carter picks up the story and attempts to find the real truth, Gallagher's life begins to ...

Style: suspense, talky, realistic, serious, tense ...

Plot: journalism, legal, murder, investigation, politics, courtroom, court, lawyer, manipulation, writers, media, newspaper reporter ...

Time: 80s, 20th century, year 1981

Place: usa, miami, florida

Genre: Drama

Country: USA

Duration: 100 min.

Story: At the birth of two boys, one white and one black, a mysterious and powerful Conjure Woman (Maya Angelou) prophesies that they will start the change. Growing up as best friends in rural Georgia in the 1940s, the boys make a discovery that leads the ...

Style: captivating, tense, suspenseful, atmospheric, serious ...

Plot: conspiracy, interracial relations, murder, social relations, dishonesty, law enforcement, lifestyle, society, friendship, life is a bitch, murder investigation, small town ...

Time: 1940s, 20th century

Place: georgia, usa

Genre: Drama, Romance, War

Country: USA

Duration: 104 min.

Story: The Year That Trembled is a 1970 coming-of-age story set in the shadow of Kent State that focuses on a group of young characters facing the Vietnam Draft Lottery.

Style: emotional, sentimental, sincere, touching, contemplative ...

Plot: vietnam war, lottery, friendship, anti war, college, politics, coming of age, teenage life, fighting the system, love affair, political unrest, rebellion ...

Time: 70s, year 1970, 60s, year 1971

Place: vietnam, ohio, usa, asia, cambodia ...

Genre: Drama, Romance, Thriller

Country: USA

Duration: 128 min.

Story: During the Cold War, an American scientist appears to defect to East Germany as part of a cloak and dagger mission to find the formula for a resin solution, but the plan goes awry when his fiancee, unaware of his motivation, follows him across the ...

Style: suspense, tense, suspenseful, stylized, political thriller ...

Plot: cold war, espionage, spy, secret agent, iron curtain, political intrigue, politics, stasi, secrets, manipulation, police investigation, murder mystery ...

Time: 20th century, year 1966, 60s

Place: east germany, germany, berlin germany, europe, east berlin ...

Genre: Drama, Romance

Country: France, Iran, Greece

Duration: 87 min.

Story: A politically complacent middle-aged man and a young pro-democracy activist debate about the future of their country while hiding from the police, in this fascinating drama that blends scripted scenes with on-the-ground footage from Iran’s 2009 ...

Style: thought provoking, captivating, realistic, serious

Plot: political unrest, idealism, politics, life is a bitch, society, state affairs, husband wife relationship, violence, propaganda, extramarital affair, female nudity, torture ...

Time: 21st century

Place: iran, tehran iran

Genre: Drama

Country: UK, USA, Canada

Duration: 126 min.

Story: It's about a five member family. The father is a conservative and traditional person who directs the family. The mother is at home, she tries to hold together the family, while Mr. Bridge works as a lawyer. The children have just grown up, and ...

Style: talky, melancholic, realistic, sentimental, family saga ...

Plot: lawyer, culture clash, family problems, human nature, society, introspection, parents and children, cancan dance, family relations, dysfunctional family, sorority, bittersweet ...

Time: 1940s, 20th century, 1930s

Place: usa, kansas city, missouri, kansas, cleveland ohio ...

Genre: Drama, Romance

Country: USA, Canada

Duration: 213 min.

Story: Set in nineteenth-century New Orleans, the story depicts the gens de couleur libre, or the Free People of Colour, a dazzling yet damned class caught between the world of white privilege and black oppression.

Style: emotional, sincere, touching, atmospheric, realistic ...

Plot: sexual content, interracial relations, racism, human spirit, social differences, plantation, injustice, family relations, hopes, life is a bitch, discrimination, parents and children ...

Time: 19th century, 1840s, victorian era

Place: new orleans, louisiana, haiti, usa

Genre: Drama, Romance

Country: USA

Duration: 109 min.

Story: At once gritty and whimsical, The Unidentified follow Estlin, a passionate young journalist scraping by in New York City. As his frustration with his entry-level job at a local newspaper peaks, his disgruntled best friend, Brooke, leaves Brooklyn ...

Style: touching, serious, realistic, political, independent film

Plot: journalism, politics, hopes, society, best friend, love and romance, fall in love, college, flapper, love, breakup, idealism ...

Time: 20th century, 60s, 2000s, september 11 2001

Place: new york, ohio, washington d.c., manhattan new york city

Genre: Drama, Romance, Thriller, War

Country: USA

Duration: 95 min.

Story: Jake Cassevetes is a world renowned shooter just back from being embedded during the U.S. invasion of Iraq. As a well-paid stringer for the networks, Jake does not buy into the currently vogue, left-wing conspiracy theory of a corporate-controlled ...

Style: clever, disturbing, realistic, serious, political ...

Plot: conspiracy, politics, idealism, anarchist, life is a bitch, dishonesty, society, rebelliousness, rebellion, injustice, political unrest, war in afghanistan ...

Time: september 11 2001

Place: iraq, afghanistan, new york, usa, middle east ...

Genre: Drama

Country: USA

Duration: 112 min.

Story: Freedom Song (2000) is a made-for-TV film based on true stories of the Civil Rights Movement in Mississippi in the 1960s. It tells the story of the struggle of African Americans to register to vote in the fictional town of Quinlan. In the midst of ...

Style: thought provoking, sincere, captivating, emotional, political ...

Plot: african american, racism, fighting the system, interracial relations, rebellion, life is a bitch, injustice, teenage life, discrimination, parents and children, politics, society ...

Time: 90s

Place: mississippi, usa

Genre: Action, Adventure, Drama, Romance, Thriller

Country: USA

Duration: 171 min.

Story: The wealthy playboy son of an assassinated South American diplomat discovers that his father was really murdered on orders of the corrupt president of the country--a man who was his father's friend and who, in fact, his father had helped put ...

Style: sexy, exciting, serious, realistic, suspenseful ...

Plot: heiress, revolution, politics, treasure hunt, protest, age-gap relationship, murder, fighting the system, older woman younger man relationship, decadence, revenge, corruption ...

Time: 70s, 60s, year 1945

Place: latin america, europe, south america, rome italy