Mahbub Alam or also popularly known as Mahbub Lee to his Korean fans is a well-known face in the South Korean film industry.

Mahbub struggled a lot before making it into the South Korean Film industry. The actor grew from being a migrant worker to become a revered actor due to his profound will to succeed in life.

The actor played lead roles in several films including "Bandhobi" and "City of Crane." His list of successful movies also includes "My friend and his wife", "Where is Ronny", "Pained", "You are my Vampire", "Perfect proposal", "Asura: City of Madness" and "Love in Korea".

He also received the president award of South Korea in 2012.

Mahbub Alam is currently the CEO of the South Korean production and distribution company, M and M International. He is also the director of the Bangladesh cultural association in Korea.

Mahbub migrated to South Korea in his early 20's. He left the country so that he can pay for his mother's treatment. He started working as a migrant worker in an RMG factory. The employees there had to work in a horrible and hazardous environment and Mahbub decided to voice against the horrendous conditions.

Seven months later his mother died but Mahbub was adamant about changing his fate.

The actor started to participate in seminars and social movements with the workers.

In order to gain media coverage for the movement, Mahbub started to make documentaries to expose the unhygienic conditions of South Korean RMG industries. Those documentaries were broadcast on several national media of South Korea.

From the initiative of 10—12 migrant workers including Mahbub himself, they were able to launch the "Migrant Worker's Television" in South Korea in 2004. They even hosted a film festival in 2006 where Mahbub acted as the director of the festival.

Mahbub's debuted in acting with a role in the short film "The Road of Revenge" and soon the actor gained international recognition with his performance in "Bandhobi," his first feature film.

"Bandhobi" was made with a budget of Tk3 crore only and focused on the love story of a migrant Karim and a Korean lady. The film highlighted different problems of the migrant workers

The 40-year-old actor has made an incredible career in South Korea by starring in 15 South Korean films, TV dramas and advertisements.