David Dwight Eisenhower was born on October 14, 1890 to Ida and David Eisenhower in Denison, Texas. The family lived in Denison briefly after their general store in Abilene, Kansas, had gone bankrupt but then returned to Abilene when young David was two. There his father became manager of a local creamery at relatively low wages. David Dwight, whose names were soon reversed by his mother in order to avoid confusion with his father, was the third of seven sons. One, Paul, died in early childhood of diphtheria. The other six survived to adulthood and each built a successful career in his own right. Their mother was so even-handed in dealing with them that even after Dwight acquired international fame and she would be asked by reporters whether she was proud of her son, her standard reply was "Which one?" (Eisenhower, 1986, p. 225).

Ida and David had met as students at Lane University in Kansas, a school affiliated with the United Brethren Church. Since women of her day rarely attended college, Ida demonstrated an independent spirit when she enrolled at Lane (Childs, 1958, p. 18). After her marriage to David in 1885, she became a major force in her household and eventually in the lives of her children.

Ida fervently stressed the importance of hard work, self-reliance, and doing one's duty. She also emphasized to her sons that while they could achieve great success if they worked hard, they must always accept their achievements with humility (Wukovits, 2006, p. 8). Although very righteous, she had a pleasant disposition. Years later, one of her grandsons could still remember her humming happily (Kornitzer, 1955, p. 73). She was also deeply religious, so much so that her favorite reading material was the Bible. Dwight later remembered that his mother's most firmly held principle was that of self-discipline which she "preached constantly" (Eisenhower, 1967, p. 32). Indeed, she had such strong self-discipline and was so upright in her personal life that she actually studied law at home so that she would be prepared if she ever encountered her husband's business partner who the family was convinced had stolen their grocery store's profits (Eisenhower, 1967, p. 31). She blamed the dishonest business partner entirely for the family's financial...