Repeat offender: Reva Shayne Lewis

A family affair: Married brothers Josh and Billy Lewis and their father, H.B. Lewis

The details: Josh and Reva were childhood sweethearts, but when Josh went off to college a lonely Reva married his brother Billy to get back at him. After the marriage crumbled, Alan lured Reva to Springfield to break up Billy and Vanessa, but she instead rekindled her romance with Josh. Josh’s father, H.B., bribed Reva into marrying him as a way to keep her from Josh. After overcoming paralysis and paternity questions, Josh and Reva married in a grand wedding at Cross Creek. The two would remarry twice more. Reva and Josh are currently separated, while Billy has once again developed feelings for his ex.

Repeat offender: Olivia Spencer Lewis

A family affair: Married Josh Lewis and his nephew Bill Lewis; wed Alan Spaulding and his son Phillip

The details: Olivia’s steamy marriage to Josh ended when he had her arrested for insider training. Years later, she wed Josh’s nephew Bill to avoid deportation. They fell in love, but divorced when Bill learned that she set up his father, Billy, to fall off the wagon.

After her split from Josh, Olivia became ensnared in a triangle with Alan and his son Phillip. After Alan faked a heart attack, Olivia agreed to wed the patriarch out of guilt. But when Alan learned that she had kissed his son on their wedding day, he kicked his bride out of their home. Olivia and Alan eventually divorced, and she wed Phillip. Both unions ended bitterly.

Repeat offender: Alan-Michael Spaulding

A family affair: Married Harley Cooper and her half-sister Lucy Cooper; wed Eleni Andros and dated her daughter Marina

The details: Though his family disapproved, Alan-Michael married Harley in order to get his $1 million trust fund. Thanks to his brother Phillip, Alan-Michael failed to obtain the trust and was forced to work at Harley’s grandfather’s diner, and the two fell in love. The couple divorced after his affair with Blake Marler. After hiring Lucy, Harley’s half-sister, as his assistant at Spaulding Enterprises, the two fell in love. After escaping the murderous Brent Marian, the two wed at Universal Studios. They are recently divorced.

Between Cooper wives, Alan-Michael married Greek immigrant Eleni so she could enter the country. Afraid of losing his bride to Frank Cooper, Alan-Michael replaced her birth-control pills with placebos, and she became pregnant. However, the pair split and Eleni wed Frank. It was revealed that Eleni had been bedding Frank, and the child she was carrying was in fact his, not Alan-Michael’s. Alan-Michael recently returned to Springfield and began dating Marina, the woman he briefly believed to be his daughter.

Repeat offender: Ross Marler

A family affair: Engaged to Holly Reade before marrying her daughter Blake Thorpe

The details: After lending Holly money to help buy 25 percent of WSPR, Ross and Holly became engaged. Ross called off the engagement after learning that Holly and Roger Thorpe were keeping company. When Ross and Holly began dating years later, Blake attempted to seduce Ross to get revenge on her mother. Her plan worked and she and Ross fell in love, marrying not long afterward.

Repeat offender: Blake Marler

A family affair: Married golden boy Phillip Spaulding and his black sheep brother Alan-Michael Spaulding

The details: Sent by Alan to spy on his son, Blake soon fell for Phillip and they wed. When Phillip learned his true love, Beth, was still alive, Blake was unable to keep her marriage alive. Desperate to keep the Spaulding wealth, Blake set her sights on brother Alan-Michael and faked a pregnancy test to trap him into marrying her. When Alan-Michael learned the truth, he divorced her.

Repeat offender: Cassie Winslow

A family affair: Married brothers Richard and Edmund Winslow; dated Richard’s look-a-like Jeffrey O’Neill

The details: A down-on-her-luck Cassie fell in love with Prince Richard Winslow. Though Cassie was sterile and unable to provide Richard with the biological child he desired, the pair wed. After Richard’s untimely death, Cassie grew closer to his brother Edmund, once her tormenter. Cassie and Edmund were briefly married, but she left him upon learning that he had set the fire that nearly killed her son RJ. Soon after, Cassie began dating Richard’s dopplegänger, Jeffrey, who had posed as the prince in San Cristobel.