Chelsea Clinton has spoken publicly for for the first time about her marriage - giving her mother the 'grandchildren she has always wanted', and following her parents into politics.

Famously protective of her private life, the 32-year-old daughter of Bill and Hillary Clinton has long stayed silent on her relationship with husband Marc Mezvinsky, but in a new interview, the pair candidly discuss their future.

In the new September issue of Vogue, Marc calls Chelsea 'the yin to [his] yang', while she admits to wanting children 'in a couple of years, hopefully...God willing'.

Breaking her silence: Chelsea Clinton strikes a pose in Vogue as she opens up about marriage and future motherhood

Her words come after widespread reports last year that the couple’s marriage was in trouble.

For the past two years, people have continued to ask if the pair were getting divorced, and though they have maintained that there was no truth to the rumours, it did inspire Chelsea to reevaluate her approach to the public eye.

Her chief of staff, Bari Lurie said: 'What put a strain on them was that the stories were being written because none of us were paying attention to it.

'It was an eye-opening lesson. Chelsea realized, "Maybe I need to get out there and demystify myself a little bit."'

Facing up to fame: Ms Clinton sparked a media storm when she married investment banker Mark Mezvinsky in 2010, in a lavish ceremony believed to have cost $3million

The article also reveals how the couple's romance evolved at Stanford University, where Marc was a sophomore and 'total playboy'.

Chelsea had just broken up with her boyfriend from Oxford University and 'used Marc [a longtime friend] as a shoulder to lean on,' according to Ms Lurie.

'It just kind of happened,' she added. 'She always says that it’s like one of those bad after-school specials.'

But though they have been married for over two years now, Chelsea and her husband are yet to have any children - another detail to fuel rumours of a rift.

And though her mother, Hillary is desperate for her daughter and son-in-law to hurry up on the grandchildren front, Chelsea is not to be rushed.

She admits: 'It’s certainly something that Marc and I talk a lot about. I always knew I was the center of my parents’ lives when I was growing up. And I am determined that our children feel the same way.

Like mother like daughter? Ms Clinton says it was after her mother's campaign, in 2008, that she reconsidered the idea of following in her footsteps

'Marc and I are both working really hard right now, but I think in a couple of years, hopefully... literally, God willing.

'And I hope my mom can wait that long.'

Chelsea also admitted - for the first time - that she would not rule out running for office herself.

'Before my mom's campaign I would have said no. And now I don’t know,' she said.

'If there were to be a point where it was something I felt called to do and I didn’t think there was someone who was sufficiently committed to building a healthier, more just, more equitable, more productive world?

'Then that would be a question I’d have to ask and answer.'

First daughter: Chelsea , in 1994 with her then-President father and mother Hillary, says she has long fielded questions about running for office herself

Ms Clinton also alludes to the Monica Lewinsky scandal that rocked her family, however she refuses to dwell on the downside.

'There were constant reminders of how blessed I really was, and the blessings always far outweighed the burdens,' she says of the Clinton's roller-coaster scandal during their time at the White House.

Opening up: The interview with the former First Daughter appears in the new September issue of Vogue

Ms Clinton, who sparked a media storm when she married Mr Mezvinsky in 2010, in a lavish ceremony believed to have cost $3million, admits it was only afterwards she decided fame was either 'something I could continue to ignore or it was something I could try to use to highlight causes that I really cared about.'

'Historically I deliberately tried to lead a private life in the public eye,' she said. 'And now I am trying to lead a purposefully public life.'

She added that the suggestion of her running for office has been a question she has fielded her whole life.

'Even during my father’s 1984 gubernatorial campaign, it was, "Do you want to grow up and be governor one day?" No. I am four,' she recalled.

She says she believes 'there are many ways for each of us to play our part...