Born Dutch: Gabriël Boudewijn Karel Maria; French: Gabriel Baudouin Charles Marie born 20th August 2003 at Erasmus Hospital the teaching hospital of Université libre de Bruxelles in Anderlecht, Brussels to Their Royal Highnesses The Duke and Duchess of Brabant.

He was christened on 25th October 2003 in the chapel of Ciergnon Castle in the Belgian Ardennes, by Cardinal Godfried Danneels, The Archbishop of Mechelen-Brussels. His godparents are Count Charles-Henri d’Udekem d’Acoz and Baroness Maria Christina von Freyberg-Eisenberg-Allmendingen.

Parents

Philippe, The King of The Belgians

Mathilde, The Queen of The Belgians

Sibling

Princess Elisabeth, The Duchess of Brabant (Dutch: Elisabeth Theresia Maria Helena; French: Élisabeth Thérèse Marie Hélène) born 25th October 2001 at Erasmus Hospital in Anderlecht, Brussels.

Prince Emmanuel of Belgium (Dutch: Emmanuel Leopold Willem Frans Maria; French: Emmanuel Léopold Guillaume François Marie) born 4th October 2005 at Erasmus Hospital in Anderlecht, Brussels.

Princess Eléonore of Belgium (Dutch: Eleonore Fabiola Victoria Anna Maria; French: Eléonore Fabiola Victoria Anne Marie) born 16th April 2008 at Erasmus Hospital in Anderlecht, Brussels.

Education

2006 – 2019; He studied at St John Berchmans College, Brussels.

2nd September 2019 – Present; He is currently studying International School of Brussels in Watermael-Bosvoorde.

Tttle

20th August 2003 – Present; His Royal Highness Prince Gabriel of Belgium.

Line of Succession

Philippe, The King of The Belgians

Princess Elisabeth, The Duchess of Brabant

Prince Gabriel of Belgium

Prince Emmanuel of Belgium

Princess Eléonore of Belgium

Princess Astrid of Belgium, The Archduchess of Austria-Este

Prince Amedeo of Belgium, Archduke of Austria-Este

Archduchess Anna Astrid of Austria-Este

Archduke Maximilian of Austria-Este

Princess Maria Laura of Belgium, Archduchess of Austria-Este

Prince Joachim of Belgium, Archduke of Austria-Este

Princess Luisa Maria of Belgium, Archduchess of Austria-Este

Princess Laetitia Maria of Belgium, Archduchess of Austria-Este

Prince Laurent of Belgium

Princess Louise of Belgium

Prince Nicolas of Belgium

Prince Aymeric of Belgium

Replies

This slideshow requires JavaScript.

Birth (2003)

15th Birthday (2018)