Prince Alexandre of the Belgians was the son of King Leopold III of the Belgians and the half-brother of two Belgian kings, Baudouin and the present King Albert II.

Alexandre, born on July 18, 1942, was baptised Alexandre Emmanuel Henri Albert Marie Leopold. He was the eldest of the three children of Leopold's second, very unpopular, marriage, to Liliane Baels.

Alexandre was born when his father was still king. Later his government decided Leopold was unfit to reign after he surrendered to the Nazis. He abdicated in 1951.

Alexandre and his sisters were recognised as members of the royal family but excluded from any rights to the throne.

Shortly before Belgium was liberated by the Allies in September 1944, the royal family was deported to Nazi Germany and guarded by 70 members of the SS. They were given inadequate food and lived in fear of death - not without reason as one of their captors apparently tried to feed them cyanide disguised as vitamins. Later they were transferred to Austria and, after liberation by the US Army, settled at Pregny, in Switzerland.

King Leopold was eventually allowed back to Brussels in July 1950 but, after serious rioting, was forced to abdicate again in favour of Prince Baudouin.

Alexandre planned to study medicine but settled on a business career. After attending the Royal Military School in Belgium, he gained a degree from the Catholic University of Louvain.

In 1991 he married Lea Inga Dora Wolman, who was twice divorced, in a civil ceremony in England. His mother was aware of the marriage but disapproved and, despite having suffered ostracism herself because of her unpopular marriage to Leopold, invited her son to social occasions without his wife. The marriage was made public only in 1998.

Last year in an interview Alexandre's wife said he had wanted to assume some official responsibilities but had been excluded. Instead he led the life of a bon vivant, enjoying fine food and the game of bridge.

His funeral was held at the at Laeken in the presence of the King and Queen, the Dowager Queen Fabiola (the widow of Baudouin) and other members of the family.