Posted in Shakespeare On Film - Trailers

OFFICIAL TRAILER - FOX - Home Video - Looking for Richard is a 1996 American documentary film directed by Al Pacino, in his directorial debut. It is a hybrid film, including both a filmed performance of selected scenes of William Shakespeare's Richard III and a documentary element which explores a broader examination of Shakespeare's continuing role and relevance in popular culture. The film was featured at the Sundance Film Festival in January 1996 and it was screened in the Un Certain Regard section at the 1996 Cannes Film Festival. Al Pacino won the Directors Guild of America Award for Outstanding Directing – Documentaries.

CAST

Al Pacino as Richard III

Penelope Allen as Queen Elizabeth

Harris Yulin as King Edward

Kevin Spacey as Buckingham

Winona Ryder as Lady Anne

Kevin Conway as Lord Hastings

Julie Moret as Mistress Shore

Estelle Parsons as Queen Margaret

Alec Baldwin as Clarence

Aidan Quinn as Richmond

This recording is for educational purposes only and is covered under Fair Use doctrine - Copyright - All rights reserved to their respective owners.

Read the unabridged plays online: [ LINK ]

Support Us - Donate Now !

Enter Amount:

£

Why Donate?

Donations to Shakespeare Network help sustain free knowledge and educational programs on Shakespeare Network and our ecosystem of Shakespeare Network projects. Your contributions ensure these resources remain accessible and valuable for all. Thank you.

25% Direct support to website:

Keeping the Shakespeare Network websites online is about more than just servers. It also includes ongoing engineering improvements, product development, design and research, and legal support.

25% Administration and governance:

We manage funds and resources responsibly to recruit and support skilled, passionate staff who advance our communities and values.

Our operating budget:

Transparency is core to our organization. The Shakespeare Network develops our annual plan and operating budget through open processes, which are subject to feedback from our volunteers and

Board approval.

50% Direct support to communities:

Shakespeare Network projects exist thanks to the communities that create and maintain them. We strengthen these communities through grants, projects, and training programs.

Contact us for further info.