Television and film star died aged 81 in February after a long illness

TV star: Peter Gilmore was best known as Captain James Onedin in The Onedin Line, which followed the fortunes of a 19th Century family shipping line

Onedin Line star Peter Gilmore left an estate worth £1,205,847 – but did not give any of it to the son he adopted with his first wife, actress Una Stubbs.

Gilmore, who died aged 81 in February after a long illness, left his entire estate to his third wife, actress Anne Stallybrass.

The couple had no children together and Gilmore’s only child was Jason, whom he adopted with Ms Stubbs during their marriage from 1958 to 1969.

The reasons why Gilmore chose to leave him out of his will are not known.

Jason, 47, who is believed to live in Spain, could not be contacted for comment last week.

German-born Gilmore appeared in several Carry On films, as well as Doctor Who, The Persuaders, Casualty and Heartbeat.

But he was best known as mutton-chopped Captain James Onedin in The Onedin Line.

The 1970s drama followed the fortunes of a family shipping line in the late 19th Century.

Gilmore’s will stated that his estate should be split between 14 other people if Ms Stallybrass, 74, died before him, but Jason was not among the list of names.

Gilmore’s widow, who played his on-screen wife in The Onedin Line, refused to talk about the will.

Speaking from her home in Barnes, South-West London, she said: ‘It is my husband’s private business and I am not going to comment about it.’

Ms Stubbs, 76, said at her Mayfair home: ‘It is nothing to do with me. I don’t want to go into it, thank you.’

Scroll down for video

Before the chops: Gilmore's only child was Jason, now 47, whom he adopted with actress Una Stubbs (right) during their marriage from 1958 to 1969. She would not comment on the actor's decision

Gilmore married his second wife, actress Jan Waters, in 1970, but they divorced six years later.

He met Ms Stallybrass while filming the first series of The Onedin Line. They began living together after the collapse of his relationship with Ms Waters and were married in 1987.