Bullseye Pistol, recently dubbed "Precision Pistol", traces its beginnings back to the early days of handgun competition.

It is a one handed pistol sport that has three stages:

Slow Fire is one or more 10 shot strings in 10 minutes, usually fired from 50 yards.

Timed Fire is two or more 5 shot strings in 20 second, usually fired from 25 yards. In most cases the targets will be on edge and will face, beginning the time. After 20 seconds the targets will edge.

Rapid Fire is like Timed Fire with just 10 seconds. Both TF and RF are repeated for a total of 20 rounds each.

This is the basics, often a tournament will contain other special matches for such as Service Pistol or even Revolver.

Matches include .22, any center fire from .32 to .45 and the .45 match. Any pistol or revolver may be used, but semi-automatics are preferred.

These matches are sanctioned by the National Rifle Association that provides the rules and classifications depending upon the individual shooters skill.

Click here for more information on the sport of bullseye shooting.

International Defensive Pistol Association (IDPA) is the use of practical equipment including full charge service ammunition to solve simulated “real world” self-defense scenarios using practical handguns and holsters that are suitable for self-defense use. The main goal is to test the skill and ability of an individual.

IDPA offers an exciting forum for practical shooters in which truly practical equipment, techniques and courses of fire are mandated. Prior to IDPA, there was no place to compete with common service pistols. There were no shooting sports where your concealed carry holster could also be your match holster without handicap. When you come to an IDPA match, you can not only use your duty/CCW equipment, you can be completely competitive with it!

If you’re interested in using truly practical pistols to solve challenging and exciting defensive shooting problems, then IDPA is the sport for you. Click here for more information.

The United States Practical Shooting Association (USPSA) was established to promote, maintain, improve and advance the sport of USPSA shooting, to safeguard its principles and to regulate its conduct worldwide in order to cultivate the safe, recreational use of firearms by persons of good character.

Competitive IPSC-style shooting developed in southern California in the late 1950's and quickly spread throughout the shooting world to Australia, Central and South America, Europe, and Southern Africa. Accuracy, power, and speed were recognized as the quintessential elements and have become the foundation of IPSC shooting. The Latin motto Diligentia, Vis, Celeritas (DVC) meaning accuracy, power, and speed was introduced to reflect these balanced elements. Click here to get more information on USPSA

Range procedures and rules for competitions, as well as safe gun handling standards, were also adopted and are strictly adhered to at Paul Bunyan.

A pistol silhouette match is typically 40 rounds and consists of knocking over steel animal cutouts with a handgun at distances of 25, 50,75 and 100 meters for small bore and field pistol and 50, 100, 150 and 200 meters for big bore. A row of 5 chickens is shot at left to right, with each one knocked over counting, then repeat to complete your 10 targets. The same is done with rows of pigs, turkeys, then rams at the longest distance. There are classifications for almost any type of handgun, from iron sighted 22 RF to custom unlimited guns and almost everything in between. It is a great way to sharpen your handgun skills and also great practice if you are a handgun hunter. Click here to get more information on silhouette shooting from the International Handgun Metallic Silhouette Association (IHMSA), the governing body for the silhouette matches.

ASI is an informal type of pistol competition geared to the average gun owner, teaching gun skills in a fun atmosphere with the handgun typically already owned. It is a move and shoot-style sport, where no holster is required. All starts are from low-ready or table. Drawing from the holster is allowed with RSO permission. Firearms are transported from state to stage in a gun case, range bag, or in a holster. Most matches are 6 to 7 stages. Round count is about 100, but bring more in case of a re-shoot.

We accept handgun calibers .22 rimfire and larger. Bring two magazines or speed loaders as most stages have a reload required. Typically, matches last 3 to 4 hours depending on the number of participants. We have a regular squad of women who welcome new gals to ASI. If a participant has mobility issues, they may sit or stand as necessary and not receive penalties.

Early pre-registration, squadding and more information is available on https://practiscore.com find us under “ASI at Paul Bunyan”.

New shooters will allocated to squads on the day of match so they will be teamed with experienced ASI members.

Match fee is $25, Paul Bunyan members $20.

New Shooter Orientation (NSO) is required for those new to ASI or Paul Bunyan’s Range.

NSO is at 0900 hrs in Bay 1. Stat Shack opens by 8:15 and closes at 9:45.