This article is about the stock secondary weapon shared by the Scout and Engineer. For other pistols, see Pistol (disambiguation).

“ ”

The Pistol is the default secondary weapon for the Scout and Engineer. It is a stylized semi-automatic pistol with a hair trigger that fires bullets from a magazine.

The Pistol boasts only a small amount of damage per hit, however, its high rate of fire makes its overall damage output relatively substantial if multiple consecutive shots are landed. In addition, its accuracy, while not entirely exceptional, is superior to that of the Scattergun or Shotgun. This makes it useful for fights that take place outside of the primary weapon's effective range, to finish off retreating targets, or as a backup weapon when the primary weapon is out of ammunition. The accuracy also makes it ideal for destroying Stickybombs and taking out unsupervised Sentry Guns outside their firing range.

The Pistol operates similarly when used by both classes, however, the Scout is able to reload his Pistol slightly faster than the Engineer, whilst the Engineer carries substantially more ammunition to the point where running out of bullets is simply not a concern.

Like the SMG and the Revolver, the Pistol fires a single, perfectly accurate shot before "bullet spread" takes effect. Waiting 1.25 seconds resets the accuracy, allowing the player to fire another perfectly accurate shot.

Damage and function times

See also: Damage

Damage and function times Shot type Hitscan Damage type Bullet Ranged or Melee damage? Ranged Damage Maximum ramp-up 150% 22 Base damage 100% 15 Maximum fall-off 52.8% 8 Pellet spread 50:1 Critical 45 Mini-crit 20 - 30 Function times Attack interval 0.15 s Reload 1.005 s

1.035 s Spread recovery 1.25 s Values are approximate and determined by community testing.

Demonstration

Strange variant

Strange variant information

Strange Pistol

Strange Pistol - Kills: 0

Compatible Strange parts Strange Part: Damage Dealt Strange Cosmetic Part: Fires Survived Strange Part: Allied Healing Done Strange Part: Allies Extinguished Strange Part: Scouts Killed Strange Part: Soldiers Killed Strange Part: Pyros Killed Strange Part: Demomen Killed Strange Part: Heavies Killed Strange Part: Engineers Killed Strange Part: Medics Killed Strange Part: Snipers Killed Strange Part: Spies Killed Strange Part: Cloaked Spies Killed Strange Part: Low-Health Kills Strange Part: Posthumous Kills Strange Part: Kills While Übercharged Strange Part: Defender Kills Strange Part: Underwater Kills Strange Part: Critical Kills Strange Part: Gib Kills Strange Part: Kills While Explosive Jumping Strange Part: Headshot Kills Strange Part: Airborne Enemies Killed Strange Part: Burning Enemy Kills Strange Part: Medics Killed That Have Full ÜberCharge Strange Part: Unusual-Wearing Player Kills Strange Part: Point-Blank Kills Strange Part: Long-Distance Kills Strange Part: Domination Kills Strange Part: Revenge Kills Strange Part: Full Moon Kills Strange Part: Halloween Kills Strange Part: Kills During Victory Time Strange Part: Kills with a Taunt Attack Strange Part: Buildings Destroyed Strange Part: Sappers Destroyed Strange Part: Robots Destroyed Strange Part: Giant Robots Destroyed Strange Part: Robot Spies Destroyed Strange Part: Tanks Destroyed Strange Part: Robots Destroyed During Halloween Strange Part: Projectiles Reflected Strange Cosmetic Part: Freezecam Taunt Appearances Strange Part: Killstreaks Ended

Related achievements

Scout

Trivia

The Pistol is a left-handed model (as shown by the ejection port being visible on the left-hand side of the gun), despite all classes holding it right-handed. A right-handed Pistol has the ejection port on its right side to prevent ejected casings from striking the user.

Gallery

See also

Pistol strategy (Scout)

Pistol strategy (Engineer)

Festive weapons