Manage the full customer life cycle seamlessly in one solution, from digital client onboarding, relationship and investment management to a digital client portal. One solution provides you with a single source of truth across your entire business. The same solution also allows you to manage all your assets in one platform across public and private markets.

You have the ability to aggregate all your positions and cash in real time to aid decision making on your portfolio, alongside tracking all on-going orders and settlements. An on demand, real time digital client portal provides end customers with an accurate view of their portfolio without delay. White-labeling and custom integrations allow for tailoring to meet your business needs. Extensive data analytics, including performance, risk and exposure, combined with insightful dashboards provide both a holistic and detailed view of your portfolio data. Drill down to individual portfolios and strategies or aggregate multiple levels of your business lines into one complete view to facilitate reporting.

Flexible integration options with multiple banks and custodians to reconcile your investment data and easily identify any irregularities. The FA Platform provides the ability to run automated workflows with exception reporting and full audit trails. Flexible pre and post trade compliance checks, applicable across various stages of the customer journey, provide effective monitoring of portfolios. This allows you to stay in control of mandates with ease and effectively keep track of and resolve breeches.

Streamline the workflows around managing multiple fund portfolios and share classes. Create and manage fee structures, handle the subscriptions and redemptions, fund reporting, calculating and processing NAVs, alongside maintaining your shareholder registry. Automated corporate actions management within the FA platform reduces overall processing times and manual errors, ensuring all positions and cash are accurately up to date. Bridge the gap between managing your portfolios and financial administration with automated double entry bookkeeping connected to your accounting provider of choice.

Having a fully integrated golden source of data is essential in today’s market. Asset and wealth managers can no longer rely on delayed data being aggregated from multiple systems to generate reporting. In addition, ensuring your golden source is “open” and supports interoperability in your ecosystem is even more important.

The FA Platform is truly open architecture, built on micro- services with an extensive library of API’s. This ensures we effortlessly become your golden source of data, allowing you to report on your entire business within minutes. The FA Platform handles everything in one solution, ensuring you have a holistic view of your business without complex integrations and data transfers.

FA Solutions has countless experience of replacing multi- database solutions that are supported by manual processes. Our standard solution for asset and wealth managers has automated, best- practice workflows available out-of-the-box and ensures your business is operating on the industry standard from go-live.