Olivia Newton-John said she was visited by several "spirit guides" from among her dead freinds and family who gave her strength through her most challenging times.

The 'Grease' actress, who died on Monday, August 8, from cancer at age 73, had revealed she was visited by the ghosts of friends and family who had died. Writing in her 2018 book 'Don't Stop Believin'', Newton-John said her spiritual guides included Karen Carpenter and John Denver. The actress, who played Sandy in the hit 70s musical, said the ghosts of her deceased famous friends "hovered" around her and gave her support whenever she performed.

RELATED ARTICLES

'Grease' co-star Olivia Newton-John and wife Kelly Preston among 3 women John Travolta lost to cancer

Why Olivia Newton-John CHOSE TO BE in denial about her cancer: Actress did not ‘see it as a battle’

Newton-John, who was also an accomplished singer-songwriter, said that both Carpenter -- the Carpenters singer who died in 1983 -- and Denver, the country music legend who died in 1997, were with her on stage every time she performed.

"I often feel as if they hover around me when I perform," she wrote of the spirits in 'Don't Stop Believin'. "They are my spirit guides who I ask to support me before every show and they keep me strong. They're gone, but their love never dies."

Denver died in a plane crash in 1997, and Carpenter, a good friend of Newton-John's, died in 1983 after suffering heart failure stemming from an eating disorder. The actress was reportedly supposed to have lunch with the singer the day after she died and learned about her passing on the radio. "It was as if the sky fell to Earth," Newton-John said of hearing about her death. "My stomach hit the ground."

Aside from Denver and Carpenter, Newton-John said she had also been visited by the spirit of her goddaughter, who died at the tender age of 5. "She has been with me ever since, along with my parents, my sister, and close friends who have passed away," the actress wrote of Colette Chuda's death. She recalled that her "hands were asking" when she learned about Colette's demise just moments before taking the stage. "How could we live without Colette? My emotions were completely out of control," she wrote. "My emotions were completely out of control. I didn't know how I would sing I Honestly Love You without falling to my knees and weeping in front of the audience."

TOP STORIES

'Your Danny, your John': Inside 'Grease' co-stars Olivia Newton-John and John Travolta's 40-year relationship

Why Olivia Newton-John CHOSE TO BE in denial about her cancer: Actress did not ‘see it as a battle’

Newton-John knew the tragic news would ruin her performance, and so she sought help from Colette's spirit. "'Colette,' I said out loud. 'I know you're with me. Please show me you're here so I have the strength to walk out on that stage and sing,'" she remembered saying. "In the next moment, I felt what can best be described as a rush of cool air. It was like a caress, as if something had lovingly brushed up against my face ... it felt like a wing, and it was so very real. It was as if she was telling me that it was okay. To go on... I didn't break down onstage because I knew that little angel was with me," she added.