Crown Princess Margaret of Sweden Scarab Necklace|Royal Jewel History

Gift from King Gustaf V and Queen Victoria of Sweden to their daughter-in-law Margaret of Connaught on her wedding day. Princess Margareta and Crown Prince Gustaf VI Adolf married on 15 June 1905, having met earlier the same year in Egypt. She was the daughter of Arthur Duke of Connaught und Princess Louise Margarete of Prussia, a princess of Great Britain and Ireland, she was nicknamed Daisy. In Sweden she was known as Margaretha.

This magnificent ruby, sapphire, diamond and pearls necklace is decorated with scarabs may have inspired of their romantic meeting in Egypt. It is made from Jeweler Koch/Frankfurt 1905.

Princess Lilian owns this wonderful jewel and left it after her death to Queen Silvia of Sweden. A gift from King Gustaf V and Queen Victoria of Sweden to their daughter-in-law Margaret of Connaught on her wedding day. Princess Margareta and Crown Prince Gustaf VI Adolf married on 15 June 1905, having met earlier the same year in Egypt. She was the daughter of Arthur Duke of Connaught and Princess Louise Margarete of Prussia. A princess of Great Britain and Ireland, she was nicknamed Daisy. In Sweden she was known as Margaretha.

This magnificent ruby, sapphire, diamond and pearl necklace decorated with scarabs may have been inspired by their romantic meeting in Egypt. It is made by the jeweller Koch in Frankfurt in1905. Princess Lilian owned this wonderful jewel and left it after her death to Queen Silvia of Sweden.

::::::::::::::

Kronprinzessin Margarete bekam dieses bildschöne Halsband von Ihren Schwiegereltern, dem König Gustav V. und Königin Victoria von Schweden, 1905 zur Hochzeit.

Prinzessin Margarete und Gustav Adolf haben sich im gleichen Jahr in Ägypten kennengelernt, in Anlehnung an dieses romantische Treffen wurden die Edelsteine des Geschenks in Scarabäusform geschliffen. Das Collier aus Saphiren, Rubinen, Diamanten und Perlenschnüre von dem Frankfurter Juwelier Koch 1905 angefertigt, gehörte dann der Prinzessin Lilian von Schweden. Nach deren Tod erbte es Königin Silvia von der Tante ihres Mannes.

::::::::::::::

Saphir-Schmuck :::: Antiques Collier :::: Perlen-Collier

Boucheron Laurel Wreath Necklace Tiara | Margaret of Connaught | Crown Princess of Sweden Jewels

Crown Princess Margaret of Sweden Jewels | Diamond Serpent Bracelet| Royal Jewel History

Diamond Half-Hoop Bracelet | Wedding Gift Windsor | Crown Princess Margaret of Sweden Royal Jewels History

THE ETON BOY'S PRESENT TO PRINCESS MARGARET| Crown Pincess of Sweden Royal Marriage Presents

Crown Princess Margaret of Sweden Scarab Necklace|Royal Jewel History

Crown Princess Louise of Sweden | Queen | Royal Jewelry Emerald Cross

Luise Ulrike Princess of Prussia and her mother Sophie Dorothea Queen of Prussia wearing Diamond Buttons Large Version of the Queen of SwedenQueen Hedwig Elizabeth Charlotte, her daughter-in-law, wearing the diamond buttons as hair-jewel

Princess Bernadotte Jewels |Marianne Countess of Wisborg Royal Jewelry Sweden

Prinzess Desiree of Sweden, Lozenge Diamond Pendant Brooch earlier worn by Queen Louise of Sweden

Royal Wedding Princess Birgitta of Sweden at Stockholm | Bernadotte Imperial Royal Cameo Diadem

Church-wedding at Sigmaringen | Die kirchliche Hochzeitsfeier von Birgitta von Schweden

Royal Wedding Gift Princess Birgitta of Sweden| Jewels | Hochzeitsgeschenke Prinzessin Birgitta von Schweden | House of Hohenzollern

Perlen-Diamant Diadem Hochzeitsgeschenk des Königs von Schweden| Royal Wedding Jewelry History

Royal Wedding present to Princess Birgitta of Sweden | Royal Mariage Gifts Jewelry History

Art deco Diamond Sapphire Brooch | Princess Sibylla of Sweden|Royal Jewel History

Princess Bernadotte Jewels |Diamond Loop Tiara | Marianne Countess of Wisborg Royal Jewelry Sweden

Princess Bernadotte Jewels |Diamond Necklace Pink Sapphires| Marianne Countess of Wisborg Royal Jewelry Sweden

Large historic Diamond Rose Brooch of Queen Silvia|Grand Duchess Baden|Bernadotte Sweden Royal Jewel History

Josephine Queen of Sweden | Nicolo Intaglios Cameos Parure |PIERRES DURES | Bonaparte Imperial Royal Jewels history