Alessandra Scalora

Illustrator and urban beekeeper Alessandra Scalora of House of Honey was selected during the Scout Night in Eindhoven. Scalora creates work on bees with materials she finds and conserves during beekeeping. Inspired by the bee, returning themes are the environment, women's emancipation and feminism, collaboration and her own history. During the talent development year, Scalora wants to develop a clear, personal style, research the Sicilian beekeeping culture and set up a community of female beekeepers. In particular, she wants to gain knowledge so that she can make pigments from flowers and experiment with different painting and material techniques. Through literature research and taking workshops, Scalora wants to learn from other artists. Scalora intends to start collaborations with Paddy Johnson, Nan Groot Antik, Ellen Gallagher, Cleo Goossens, Margarita Osipova, Yolande van der Heide, Marieke Pijler, and Masharu. At the end of the year, House of Honey will present ten new works in an exhibition at TAC. Scalora will also make her first photo book.

Alyson Sillon

Designer Alyson Sillon graduated from the Gerrit Rietveld Academie with a bachelor's degree in graphic design in 2022. In the development plan, Sillon describes the ambition of looking analytically at established and hidden visual codes through graphic design. She builds on the work Before/After, experiments with world-building and links three communication methods to them: narrative writing, visual creation and embodied manifestations. For the first communication method, Sillon wish to involves the expertise of a Black writer and critic to obtain a decolonial perspective, to work on writing stories. With 'visual creation', Sillon wants to get a better understanding of visual creatorship. To do this, Sillon will visit Tianzhuo Chen in Berlin and will make digital collages that will reflect on The Book of Drexciya by Abdul Qadim Haqq. Through the third communication method, Sillon wants to remodel her graphic design into embodied manifestations and performances. The designer will seek the expertise of choreographer Connor Schumacher and Michele Rizzo. In order to steer the project in the right direction, according to the maker it is crucial to possess production management skills. By attending Dweller festival in New York, Sillon will observe how you can reach an audience in the right way, and how you let this grow. The project will result in a showcase in a nightlife venue of Amsterdam. Lastly, Sillon will create a publication in which black heritage, techno and spirituality are linked to each other. The publication will be presented by Pamela, San Serriffe, After 8 Books, Presence Africaine and Do you read me?

Amos Peled

Amos Peled designs experiences in the audiovisual domain of art and performance. His work explores the definition of 'doubt' in relation to medical technology. Peled uses defamiliarization, alienation and doubt as methods to stimulate research into the human perception, the perception of oneself and the construction of intersubjectivity. This interest follows on from his own experience of growing up in a hospital environment. Here, he experienced and observed the work processes of the medical system, which are designed in such a way that there is hardly any room for doubt. In the coming year, he wants to introduce creativity into the medical environment, by working with the University of Twente Technical Medical Centre and the Leiden University Medical Centre and introduce medical technology into an artistic context. He will be mentored by artists Aya Ben Ron, Karel van Laere and iii.

Ange Neveu

Ange Neveu, who graduated from the Royal Academy of Arts The Hague, researches the rapid changes in the relationships between 'nature', technology and people and the blurring that arises between them. According to Neveu, these changes emphasize existing power structures, but they also offer new possibilities for co-existence and connection. As an observer, a storyteller and a designer, they want to tell these multifaceted stories from different perspectives, no matter how contradictory. In the talent development year, Neveu wants to further develop their voice as a researcher at the interface between eco-surveillance, production and reproduction technologies and non-normative desires, develop a polyphonic narrative style that speculatively, poetically and accurately combines words and images. Also, Neveu wants to develop new research and speculation methods for phenomena across the physical and digital world. Neveu will work on two projects: May your eyes never look away, may your genitals always be lubricated and Invasion Diaries. In addition, they will develop research methods in a smaller collaboration project and will learn practical skills, like scriptwriting, video editing and planning. Neveu will work with, amongst others, June Yu, Waag, Ine Gevers and Mari Bastachevski. The findings will be presented in a publication and during Waag's Open Evening Programme. Other locations where Neveu will present are FIBER, IMPAKT, International Film Festival Rotterdam, International Documentary Festival Amsterdam and Brussels Short Film Festival.

Anna Torres

Anna Torres is an artist, architect, a visual storyteller and a general spatial poet. Her work uncovers the various power structures that play a part in the so-called public space, in which gender, sexuality and homosexuality are central. In the coming year, Anna will research the spatial display of power at the Wallen (the Red Light District in Amsterdam). Anna intends to deepen her artistic sensibility and spatial knowledge, expand her network and investigate her own definition of what an architect is. She will take a spatial storytelling workshop and a multimedia course. She will be mentored by René Boer. The year will find form in a series of spatial drawings, architecture collages and critical texts that will be bundled in a publication.

Anna Zan

Anna Zan's architecture practice focuses on the cultural and artistic value of raw materials. Zan's work is an exploration of new, regenerative building materials. Up until recently, efforts in the field of sustainability specifically focused on energy consumption when using buildings, whilst interest in the carbon included in the construction was marginal. Replacing carbon-intensive building materials with regenerative resources from the biosphere is an important approach for making our built environment carbon-free. Using the Talent Development grant, Anna will work on two parallel studies (Material Cultures Limburg and Material Cultures NL) in order to deliver a contribution to the new, sustainable, local, material culture of the Netherlands. By means of this research, she will explore solutions for low-carbon construction in the Netherlands with a special focus on raw materials (plants and minerals). She will be supported and mentored by, amongst others, Oskam, NAP Ingenieurs, Werkstatt and Lucie Havel. Zan intends to go on study trips to Atelier Luma+Gernoble National School of Architecture and to Bolthauser Architekten+ETH Zürich material lab.

Aurélia Noudelmann & Laëtitia Delauney

Curatorial and social design duo Aurélia Noudelmann and Laëtitia Delauney graduated from the Gerrit Rietveld Academie. Their practice focuses on hybrid spaces where new creation-based dialogues can be facilitated. Noudelmann and Delauney are driven to re-appropriate crafts dominated by men, in particular shipbuilding, by researching sustainable design methods, like upcycling and through inclusive structures offering scope to practices that focus on communities and specifically feminist and queer initiatives. Core themes and topics are intersectional feminism, upcycling, open source and shipbuilding. Using the Talent Development grant, they want to develop De Walvis project, a hybrid and modularly designed boat which can be used in all seasons as a residence and as a presentation space. To realize this, Noudelmann and Delauney will study shipbuilding techniques, build and test prototypes, and carry out upcycling experiments and learn about participative design. They will also develop an open, participative shipyard. Noudelmann and Delauney will work, amongst others, with Buurtwerkplaats Noorderhof, Fiona De Bell, Recycle Valley, and Bureau Double. Presentations will take place at Fanfare, Buurtwerkplaats Noorderhof, SAIL Amsterdam, and will be published on social media.

Chen-Yu Wang

Designer, artist, researcher, maker and factory girl, Chen-Yu Wang graduated from the Design Academy Eindhoven. In these different roles, Wang translates Eastern and Western ways of thinking, written information in Mandarin and English, the implicit between material and immaterial and the dialogue between us and the other. Wang wants to break through the silence of the important but invisible voices of capitalism. Core themes are decolonization, decentralization of euro-centrism, hybridization and anti-racism. Wang is looking for ways to integrate sociology and anthropology into her artistic practice. Using the Talent Development grant, Wang wants to set up The Rest Factory: a self-sustaining social organization that offers immediate inclusivity, fair wages and dignified work to factory girls. To realize this, Wang will take courses in social business development, anthropology and sociology, she will study existing social enterprises that are active in a creative or artistic context, do a foreign residency, go on a study trip to Prague to learn about weaving and interview factory girls. Wang will work with Ben Platts-Mills, Lukas Völp, Sabeena Ibrahim, WNOOZOW, Eleri and Ana de Fontecha. The presentations will take place at the GLUE Festival and Dutch Design Week.

Chenda

Chenda (Chisenga) is a self-taught fashion designer with a background in woodworking. She focusses on leather mask, with the aim of empowering different types of bodies, promoting sexual freedom and at the same undermining the male gaze. According to Chenda, it is the fashion industry that, to a significant extent, determines the ideal of beauty. Chenda hopes to offer a healthier alternative to this ideal. Her brand Chisenga explicitly links up with the characteristics of black queer feminism. In the coming year, the designer will focus on leather crafting. Chenda will visit various tanneries in Naples in search of a high-quality preferred supplier. She will also research the possibilities of fruit leather in Rotterdam. She will work on positioning her brand and will be mentored by art director Maxime van Namen. A graphic layer for Chisenga will be designed in collaboration with Fital de Frel. The work will be presented during a performance art club night at Studio Papa in Amsterdam-Noord (The Gang is Beautiful (TGIB)). The event will be promoted through a poster campaign in collaboration with Jim Mooijekind.

Cote

Creative maker from Chile, Cote of Cotecreate Studio lives in Leeuwarden and was selected at the Scout Night in Zwolle. Cotecreate Studio combines social design and graphic design in her practice. She sees art and creativity as impactful means for bringing people together and solving social issues. She is passionate about protecting, building, understanding, sharing, educating about and fighting for equality. Using the Talent Development grant, Cotecreate Studio wants to further develop a specific artistic signature, by integrating Latin-American visual codes in her existing style, taking a course on mural painting, participating in a residency and doing community work in Chile for a large social organization. In addition, she wants to gain knowledge about social, demographic, economic and political aspects of social issues in the Netherlands and learn commercial skills like time management in large community projects as well as marketing skills. Cotecreate Studio will work with, amongst others, Payo, Eva Koopmans, Katie Creekay, Annerieke Otten, Carolien Tiedema, Jeroen Dijkstra and Jessie Jansen. At the end of the talent development year, she wants to have a new website.

Daeuk Kim

Daeuk Kim of Studio Deaukkim, who graduated from the Design Academy Eindhoven, creates objects that serve as alter egos to fulfil, explain and express his desires and dreams. Growing up in the conservative culture of Korea, he had to suppress and hide his desires, identity, gender expression and freedom of choice, because of the social expectations surrounding his gender. By creating mutated objects - or characters - that represent his previously hidden desires, Kim changes this shame into pride. Themes in Kim's work are diversity and the acceptance of differences. Studio Deaukkim wants to create work that evokes emotions and an stimulates understanding of social issues. Using the Talent Development grant, he wants to further develop storytelling and things other than verbal narrative techniques around previously created characters, for example based on fashion, a photo series and a video series. Kim will be coached for this and will take part in storytelling, photography, videography and 3D-graphics courses. Studio Deaukkim will work with MAISON the FAUX, Alexandre Humbert, Koen de Bruyn and Cusson Cheng. Presentations will be shown both online and offline by sharing his process on social media, by publishing the final work on platforms like Dazed, NOWNESS or Numéro and physically, among other things, in a group exhibition in the Hyundai Motor Studio in Korea.

Denzel Veerkamp

Fashion designer Denzel Veerkamp was born in Amsterdam-Zuid, as the child of a Dutch mother and a Surinamese father. Questioning social systems and translating his personal experiences around his modern black identity are central in his practice. Veerkamp is critical of the systems that are applied within the Western, capitalist society and specifically those within the fashion industry. In the coming year, Veerkamp will focus on The Perpetual Reverse Assimilation Project (PRAP). PRAP is about discomfort, openness, interaction, perception without judgment and innovation. It is an investigation into the many layered facets of Dutch-Surinamese history. For this, he will seek the guidance of Chiquita Nahar, Richard Kufi, Charl Landvreugd and Daan van Dartel from Museum van de Wereldculturen. In addition, he will go on a research trip to Surinam. His findings will be presented in a visual online archive and in a series of new designs that will be shown in various places.

Driever

Spatial design, art and science converge in the sculptures of self-taught multidisciplinary maker Driever. Driever, who was selected during the Scout Night in Zwolle, mainly works with recycled and recovered materials, like broken up devices, toys and found wood and metal. With his designs, the maker wants to challenge the audience to reflect on choices and possibilities or to look at our planet from another perspective. Using the Talent Development grant, Driever will let his work respond to the movements of viewers. It will appeal to several senses. He wants to present his work in a wider and suitable network, focusing on Enschede and Rotterdam. He also wants to take a Python and a robotics course, go on a study trip to Lisbon, be coached in cultural entrepreneurship and build a new website. Driever will work with Edwin Dertien, Michel Beek, Mare Kiers, Anne Wenzel, Nicky Assman and Kees de Groot. At the end of the year, he wants to present work in Enschede, Rotterdam and during Dutch Design Week.

Dunya Zita

Dunya Zita has an interdisciplinary practice, combining lens-based media (photography and film) with audio and poetry. Drawing from her Moroccan-Dutch background, she delves into themes of human interaction and perception, exploring their entanglement with nature and nurture influences.

In the coming year, Zita plans to further develop her practice through artistic experimentation in the realm of image-making and content exploration, including anthropological research, poetry, and interactive exhibition elements. To achieve this, she intends to seek assistance from professionals in various disciplines such as researchers, journalists, visual artists, electrical engineers, and writers. Additionally, she aims to enhance her technical expertise through workshops in film development and color grading theory, among others. As part of her creative journey, she will spend ten weeks in Morocco collaborating with local artists, including Yassine Sellame, a photographer, and the founder of Moroccan Darkroom.

Emmie Massias

Emmie Massias designs workshops, installations, and objects, with water as a recurring theme. Emmie's goal is to shed light on the disappearing cultural, territorial, and post-colonial identities shaped by geopolitical forces today. In the coming year Emmie aims to conduct research on the Dutch Imperial Oyster, which offers insights into the politics of water management and the exportation of Dutch water expertise to Southeast Asia. Through material exploration, Emmie reflects on cultural influence, neo-imperialism, and the consequences of a European perspective rooted in colonialism. Emmie has a personal connection to the subject matter as she grew up in Vietnam. Throughout the year she will expand her skills in ceramics through a course on river clay (Stichting Fabrikaat) and conduct a series of performances during a month-long residency (the Fondation Martell). She will be mentored by i.a. Henriette Waal (Luma), Lada Hrsak (Shollow Waters Institute) and Louise Carver (political ecologist, TBA-21). Emmie will spend three months in Vietnam to establish collaborations with artisans and organizations as to expand her work and reach communities in Ho Chi Minh City and a wider international audience. The work will be presented on storytelling platform Nextblue and the Museum für Kunst und Gewerbe.

Enzo Aït Kaci

Enzo Aït Kaci (Enzo De Tandt) is a digital designer with a background in fashion. Their practice investigates the value of fashion images through the digital prism of the internet. During the talent development year, Enzo intends to research the value of online fashion images and how they relate to the distribution networks. During the first research phase, Enzo will challenge the local Dutch community of makers that work with images, mentored by Paula Canovas Del Vas (fashion designer) and Jacque Percomte (media artist). In the second research phase, Enzo will carry out experiments on materials at the Lottozero residence in Prato, Italy. In the last design phase, Enzo will create a hybrid fashion collection in collaboration with Clara Pasteau. The collection will be produced in collaboration with curator Isobel Whalley and will be presented in an offline exhibition that will function as a physical materialisation of the website.

Hand of Fatima

Hand of Fatima is a socially engaged henna artist. With her work, she questions the prevailing Western image of the North African woman. During her development year, the maker will focus on the project Restore the Narrative (through Hennafication). For this, she will dive into the archives in search of images of North African women from the last century, to uncover the European fantasy image of the 'Arabic world'. During the talent development year, Hand of Fatima will be coached by, amongst others, Nina Hama, Fatima Essahsah and Nathalie Alblas. In addition, she will take a photography masterclass and a Procreate course by Gouden Lijntjes. The presentation will consist of a new website and a promo video. Hand of Fatima will also investigate the possibilities of presenting her work in the Wereldmuseum Rotterdam or Tropenmuseum Amsterdam.

Ikael Echteld

Self-taught fashion designer Ikael Echteld is co-founder of The Gang is Beautiful (TGIB). TGIB is a creative and cultural collective that engages with fashion, art and lifestyle in the form of products and events. What TGIB exudes is that there are no boundaries between different 'boxes' in society. Afro futurism, spirituality and challenging norms around gender and cultural minorities are central in Ikael's practice. As a self-taught maker, Ikael lacks knowledge of the technical side of fashion design. In the coming year, he will therefore further develop his pattern drawing skills (a course at Vogue Academy), denim and leather-work (coaching by denim expert Alljan Moehamad and leather specialist Frankie Boateng) and applying digital drawing techniques (Adobe illustrator course at MK24). In addition, he will start researching a production method at the New Order of Fashion Lab to make his practice resilient for the future. Ultimately, a collection will ensue from this, which will be presented in an exhibition, a short film and a photo collection.

James Noya

Designer James Noya works in wood engraving. As a result of colonialism, much of the knowledge of and about Moluccan wood engraving and Moluccan symbols and motifs has been lost. In his practice, James focuses on reintroducing this craft, injecting new life into it. In the coming year, Noya wants to further develop his wood engraving technique by taking a sculpting course at Creapoelka and wants to do in-depth research on heritage, based on museum collections. In addition, he wants to investigate the right stage or platform for presenting his work. He will be mentored in this regard by Amanda Pinatih (design curator at the Stedelijk Museum). Noya intends to present his work in a short documentary, which he will make in collaboration with video producer Geraldo Solisa and film maker Tahnee Elloreen Leupen.

Jazmon Voss

Originally trained as a ballet dancer, Jazmon Voss is inspired by dance, music and movement. Vos was selected during the Scout Night in Eindhoven. Deconstructing gender norms and his personal African-native background are recurring topics and sources of inspiration in his practice. He processes vintage clothing in his designs. With the grant, Voss wants to take various courses in design software, pattern drawing and jewellery making and to do literary research into deep-see fish. During the year, Voss will work with, amongst others, Telma Patricia Fonseca, Samir Bakir and Henna Astra. His objective is to design and produce five upcycled garments, as well as six ready-to-wear looks that will be produced externally. The collection will be presented at a non-traditional, immersive runway event.

Jenny Konrad

Jenny Konrad is a visual translator of information expanding towards a multi sensory praxis. Konrad aims to find new ways beyond traditional and digital journalistic media, pushing the boundaries of storytelling to make information digestible to constantly overstimulated minds and understimulated bodies. Konrad works with topics like disability rights, (self/community) care and body politics. They research, in particular, the body's role in an increasingly digital and physically estranged capitalistic culture. Works take shape in installations, performative interventions and experimental websites, presenting information with which the audience can interact. As a designer, Konrad wants to make information more accessible in order to contribute to the agency of individuals and to initiate connections for community care. Using the Talent Development grant, they will concentrate on building a sustainable practice. During the development year, they will participate in the Crip the Curriculum events of the Sandberg Institute and the Gerrit Rietveld Academy, as well as in the Disability Justice Reading Group, they will take workshops in quilt-making and they will develop new workshop concepts. To achieve this, Konrad will work with Ludmila Rodriguez, Lotte van Laatum, Renée Kooijman, Lotte de Rooij and Brittany Thorpe. Konrad wants to present at Mediametic and during Dutch Design Week.

Jeroen Alexander Meijer

Interdisciplinary mindscape artist Jeroen Alexander Meijer graduated from the Royal Academy of Art. With his practice, he focuses on the mental landscape of the digital society. His work is given shape in different hybrid media, varying from installation art, performance and writing to spatial design and wearables. Inspired by his own experiences with ADD, Meijer works with themes like attention, technology, ritualism, simplicity, clarity and embodiment. During the talent development year, Meijer wants to research how you can captivate your senses whilst deliberately ignoring visual stimuli. More specifically, Meijer will attend the Dutch TouchDesigner conference and workshops to improve his software skills and learn about new media, redesign his website and social media, do residencies at Crossing Paralells/TU Delft and Uncloud and visit cultural institutions and organizations that are relevant to his practice. Meijer will work with Stefan van der Stigchel, Joris Strijbos and Edwin van der Heide. His experiments and research results will be shared, amongst other things, through his website in text, image and interactions and at Uncloud Festival.

Jesse van den Berg

Jesse van den Berg graduated from the Master Institute of Visual Cultures, part of St. Joost School of Art & Design in Den Bosch. In their practice, they focus on intimacy through photography, video, audio, installation and the representation of queer people. Collectivity, love and vulnerability play an important role in the creative process. Together with their models, Van den Berg tells stories that they find important to tell within the representation of queer persons, such as celebrating the diversity of body types, trans- and non-binary persons, BIPOC (Black, Indigenous, and people of color) and other identity traits that are still often underrepresented. With the Talent Development grant, Van den Berg plans to attend workshops in sound design and zinemaking, develop a website, take study tours to Madrid and Extremadura and set up their own residency project. They will work with, among others, Guinevere Ras, Yin Aiwen and Lana Prins. At the end of the year, Van den Berg will present work in an exhibition at the Dutch Design Week.

Katharina Nejdl

Graphic designer, developer and educator Katharina Nejdl graduated from the Sandberg Institute and uses digital technologies like web (open source), AR and AI as graphic devices. By experimentally approaching web design and creative coding, Nejdl's practice reflects on our relationship with technology and the impact it has on the design field. In the coming year, Nejdl wants to research the potential of creative coding as a design tool and to reflect critically on the impact technology has on the creative field. In order to understand the potential of coding from different perspectives, Nejdl will develop a poster generator, a type tool and a publication creator. Through mentoring sessions, coding assessments and online courses, but also business coaching and financial advice, Nejdl wants to professionalize her practice both artistically and organisationally. Nejdl will work with The Rodina, Vera van de Seyp, Varia and Same Same Studio. Besides sharing her findings in a printed publication, a workshop will be her most important presentation form.

LAMEIAE

Visual storyteller LAMEIAE (Lamiae El Hajjaji) uses various media, e.g. illustration, graphic design and animation, to contribute positively to the narrative of the BIPOC/MENA community within the art world. El Hajjaji does not focus on the painful story but offers representation to different generations and groups and scope for an open dialogue. In the coming year, El Hajjaji will work on a deconstructed comic under the name Hia (Arabic for she/her). During the development year, the designer will participate in a residency at LFMC, where she will be mentored by Brian Elstak and Giuseppe Du Crocq, amongst others. In order to improve her narrative skills, she will receive guidance from copywriter Zindzi Zevenbergen. The work will be given shape in a number of objects and a printed comic. El Hajjaji will be mentored by screen-print studio KAPITAAL in Utrecht in experimenting with the structure and format of the comic. She will take a ceramics course at Juultje Meerdinks and will exhibit her work at LFMC.

Lashaaawn

Lashaaawn is an on- and offline drag performance artist who is passionate about the greater good. With their artistic practice as a drag performance artist and an epic fantasy writer, Lashaaawn wants to gain a more prominent presence in the digital domain. During this development year, Lashaaawn wants to improve the quality of their work through the artistic guidance of writer and cultural programmer Simone Zeefuik, amongst others. In addition, Lashaaawn will work on both their technical and performance skills through workshops. Lashaaawn will start a collaboration with similar, but more advanced artists, including Richard Kofi and Meliibees. They also plan to learn more about how to navigate the social media landscape and how to better realize their own fictional epic fantasy world, both online and offline. All this will converge in a web series of about seven episodes, performance videos, a physical exhibition and presentations through livestreams on Instagram and Twitch.

Lena Winterink

In her work, textile designer Lena Winterink focuses on patterns. In the work, there is a strong connection between both textile patterns and social systems. Winterink's biggest driver is to translate 'social' patterns into textile designs. In doing so, Winterink makes themes that are difficult to grasp more tangible, both literally and figuratively. Winterink has four development themes, namely textile skills (weaving with technical weaver Thera Berkhout), industry and innovation (increasing knowledge and network in collaboration with Enschede Textielstad for local production with transparency about the origin of raw materials), positioning (mentoring and methods with, amongst others, Buro Belèn) and lastly reporting and securing (recording the vision and the practice). Winterink's research will be presented in the form of a publication. In addition, she will come out with a new website for her work and during the year she will explain her work in various lectures on location, including at the Material District and Contactgroep Textiel.

Lukas Engelhardt

Lukas Engelhardt is a graphic designer and artist. His work revolves around the struggle for space, in the digital as well as the physical domain. Lukas researches ways to hack or crack systems and uses self-organization to create temporary autonomous zones. Alternatives, like cracking and self-hosting, may seem to be inaccessible. According to Engelhardt, demystifying these processes is crucial, both in and outside the creative sector. In the ongoing process of decolonization of institutions and practices, a wide-ranging discussion on infrastructure is essential. To deepen his understanding and refine his practice, Lukas will do research on self-organization and the aesthetics of autonomy by means of lectures and interviews with, amongst others, artist collective the Hundred Rabbits and the Brussels Open Source Publishing collective. He will also build several servers from old hardware and software and develop sys-admin in collaboration with Ada Reinthal and Fablag Waag. Engelhardt will reflect on this during the development year by working on the Self-Hosting Manual, receiving guidance from Silvio Lorusso and Roel Roscam Abbing. He will present four servers/prototypes at Dutch Design Week and he will publish his Self-Hosting Manual in collaboration with Paul Bille.

Maciej Wieczorkowski

Architect Maciej Wieczorkowski studied at the Technical University Delft and leads the Dividual spatial design practice together with Andrea Bit. Wieczorkowski is fascinated by the power of architecture to evoke feelings and stimulate solidarity. Central themes in his practice are the commons, productivity and unproductivity in the built environment, and more specifically the reuse of infrastructure, the unlocking of underutilized sources and an exploration of the notion of metabolism. With the grant, Wieczorkowski wants to further develop as a designer by bringing order to his understanding of the commons, to translate this into a personalized design approach and research its potential applications. He will do this through a literary study and by visiting locations that embody the commons, a series of design exercises and experimenting with different ways of presenting his findings. Furthermore, Wieczorkowski will delve into project management, financial administration and marketing. Wieczorkowski will work with Thijs Lijster, Scott Lloyd, Wojciech Mazan and others. Possible presentation places are Waag, Nieuwe Instituut, Architectuur Instituut Rotterdam, the Board of Government Advisers and the Rotterdamse Academie van Bouwkunst.

Maria Fraaije

Self-taught social illustrator Maria Fraaije was selected at the Scout Night in Rotterdam. In addition to her creative work, Fraaije is a researcher at the Dutch Research Institute for Transitions (DRIFT), where she does research on, among other things, power, justice and social innovation in large social transitions. Using the Talent Development grant, Fraaije wants to intertwine these two practices. At the end of the development year, Fraaije wants to have developed her artistic practice into a practice with a clear-cut artistic signature informed by her scientific expertise, with fantasy and imagination playing a bigger role, and with her drawings stirring reflection and debate. Fraaije chooses the relationship between man, nature and agriculture as a theme. Fraaije researches the relationship between these three elements based on network meetings with similar makers and thinkers, field visits, courses and three drawing phases - on reality and fantasy and narratives about the future. In the coming year, Fraaije will work with Marieke Meesters, Nick Verouden, Eva Hilhorst, Afdeling Buitengewone Zaken, Stichting Wij.land, Emily Haworth-Booth and Lily Higgins. Fraaije will present the eventual results in, for instance, an audiovisual exhibition and on the Drawing the Times platform.

md-2 architects

Michal Dlugajczyk and Mahaut Dael of md-2 architects graduated from the Rotterdamse Academie van Bouwkunst Academy of Architecture and work in Rotterdam on small-scale and medium-sized renovation projects. md-2 architects delve into the stories, history, significance and identity of a place, with them seeing themselves as defenders of the existing context. They protest against the continuous demolition and the brushing aside of the valuable and complex city. Using surrealism as a methodology, Description by Design, they want to create new realities based on enriching, supplementing and revealing what already exists. Returning themes are identity, sustainability and flexibility. Using the Talent Development grant, md-2 architects want to combine research, practice and exhibitions. They will go on a study trip to Prague, visit construction material factories in the Rotterdam region and analyze the current waste flows of demolition materials. They will also take courses on project management and curation. md-2 architects will work with ENCI, Jan Skrivanek, Heidelberg Materials and the Rotterdamse Academie voor Bouwkunst. Presentations will be given shape in Diffuse Architecture Gallery (d.a.g.), a series of public events in empty spaces, with interactive sessions being organized in the Nieuwe Instituut and/or The Independent School for the City. An exhibition will take place at OMI or Gallery 3 By You.

Michelangelo Winklaar

Multidisciplinary designer Michelangelo Winklaar was selected at the Scout Night in Rotterdam. Using his designs, Michelangelo wants to produce feelings and an experience and expose social issues. Recurring themes are, for example, imprisonment or slavery, female shapes and inclusivity. Using the Talent Development grant, Winklaar wants to develop a tactile couture exhibition that is accessible to the visually impaired. For this, he will carry out material research, take a workshop on couture embroidery and investigate how he can enhance the experience of an exhibition for people who are visually impaired, for example, by adding touch and sound. Winklaar will start collaborations with Madelief Hohe (Kunstmuseum Den Haag), Carlo Wijnands, Visio (Institute for the Blind), Marcel Westerdiep (Escher in het Palais), and Beeld & Geluid, amongst others. At the end of the development year, Winklaar will have a roadmap with different possible presentation forms, the results of his research and meetings, and workshops to present to various museums.

Michèle Boulogne

Textile designer, visual artist and multimedia archivist Michèle Boulogne graduated from the Design Academy Eindhoven. Her areas of expertise comprise artisanal and industrial textiles, archive research and research into what it means for humanity to navigate in space through ecosystems, observe and use them. Boulogne places this in parallel with earthly issues, like the use and regulation of community resources and decolonial ecology. Boulogne divides the development year into four parts. She will apply techniques she learned during an internship in Kalingo, basket weaving techniques in Martinique and Dominica, Watikubuli in her studio and she will also learn industrial weaving by experimenting with the Digital Jacquard loom. In addition, Boulogne will seek contact with the academic world by means of interviews, visits and discussions about textiles and world construction, at Waag, for example. She will also explore the long-term How do environments come to [[matter]]; translating radar signals into textiles project. Lastly, she will commence the Caribbean Arc and Outer Space, an academic and visual reflection on exploration project. Michèle Boulogne will work with the Kalinago community, Marie Line Mouriesse, Miha Tursic at Waag and Jens Hauser. Boulogne will present her work by means of printing, textile samples and lectures at, for example, Leonardo/OALTS 2024.

Michiel Terpelle

Graphic designer Michiel Terpelle graduated from ArtEZ University of the Arts with a master's degree in typography in 2020. The designer is interested in exploring queer dating apps, sexual inclination, drag, gender, eroticism, technology and the use of tools like fonts, templates, grid systems, instructions, card systems and workshops. In the development year, Terpelle is going to experiment with the different tools to document community-driven productions, publications and archiving from a queer perspective. With the character Jizz Taco, Terpelle is going to strengthen their presence within the heteronormative design world. Terpelle regards the character as a medium for interventions within spaces where a normative audience could be confronted with a queer perspective. With the project C.A.R.E. (Community, Archiving, Restoring, Expressing) Terpelle will visit different queer initiatives, collectives and events that save their work in archives and publications. The goal of these visits is to increase accessibility to the knowledge within the initiatives and to question the effects of categorization. The initiatives include The Queer Feminist collective nietnormaal*, Bebe Books, Los Angeles Collectief, The Apoqalypse Party, The Pink Cube, The Utrecht Ballroom Scene, The Queer Arcana and MIAUW. Terpelle will also take voguing classes to feel more comfortable in their body, both as a queer person and as Jizz Taco. To gain more insight into maintaining and managing archives, Terpelle will visit The Black Archives and Queer.Archive.Work. During the year, Terpelle will contact various mentors, including artist Nat Pyper, drag queen Sasha Velour and other queer graphic designers like Rosen Everleigh, Tabea Nixdorf and Bart de Baets. Terpelle will present the knowledge acquired and their research during the Paris Ass Book Fair or at Bebe Books in Ghent.

Milenco Dol

Creator Milenco Dol was selected during the Scout Night in Zwolle. With photography as the most important medium, Dol focuses on telling stories from an authentic and personal perspective. Topics vary from following the Groningen band The Vices, to a series about starters on the job market. Using the Talent Development grant, Dol wants to further develop himself artistically and commercially. In addition to coaching, Dol wants to delve into analogue photography, different materials and printing techniques, exhibition design and develop a website. He also wants to participate in open calls and expand his network of prospective clients. In the coming year, Dol will work with Wouter le Duc and Denise Woerdman. At the end of the year, he will present his development in an exhibition of new work.

Niels de Bakker

Niels de Bakker makes installations, in which materials are manipulated, displaying intangible phenomena. His projects often start with a search for forgotten, failed or obscure inventions and machines. He controls these machines like an instrument in his performative installations. His practice touches on the areas of mechanology, media archaeology and sonology. In the coming year, De Bakker will develop new scientific instruments. To enhance his knowledge about this, he will carry out theoretical research in mechanology (study of machines), being supported by the TU Delft Optics Research Group. In addition, De Bakker will be mentored by Kees Reedijk, technical adviser at the Rijksakademie in the field of electronics and mechanics. The research will be expressed in a final presentation, the location for which will be determined at a later stage.

Pedro Daniel Pantaleone

Pedro Daniel Pantaleone, part of Studio-Method, operates with a research-based approach intersecting architectural interventions, spatial installations, theoretical explorations, and product design. His focus lies in exploring innovative practices for reusing materials and a radical commitment to sustainable construction in response to the urgency of scarcity that asks us to rethink our material relations.

A central theme in his work involves questioning the possibilities of Architecture and Community in a context characterized by material depletion, transcending the traditional perception of waste as a mere technical problem. Over the next year, he intends to experiment with the expansion of Studio-Method's "Contingent Designs," which reimagine value systems of control and extraction in Design to foster convivial and communal practices of care- taking and repair. He aims to investigate the feasibility of implementing this methodology systematically, establishing a Living Lab where he will construct an architectural section. This Living Lab will be an experimental space to explore alternative methods of working with waste, creating connected and structured prototypes through collaborative thematic exploration.

The primary objective is to generate accessible knowledge and research in recycling, expanding within a systematic framework. Pantaleone will receive support from Studio Ossidiana and Studio Frank Havermans for artistic guidance, along with other collaborators specializing in construction and architectural support, areas the practice seeks to advance. Furthermore, he will undertake courses on point cloud technology, 3D mapping, and welding to enhance their unique working method and skill set.

During the testing phase, Studio-Method will collaborate with a network of suppliers offering reused materials in the Rotterdam area, engage with the Milan-based Zattere collective as a peer collaborator in construction, and collaborate with a photographer/video maker to enhance communication and documentation capabilities. The project's outcomes will be showcased at the lab, with the research being presented during the 2024 Dutch Design Week and eventually at the Model Festival for Experimental Architecture in Barcelona.

Peter Peels

Self-taught interdisciplinary maker Peter Peels of 4DMagnetics was selected during the Scout Night in Eindhoven. His work can take on various forms, from analogue to digital illustrations, 3D design, animations and music. Using the Talent Development grant, 4DMagnetics wants to develop a video game about a Moluccan warrior on a fictitious, precolonial Moluccan island. In light of this project, Peels wants to pool his creativity with technical skills, immerse himself in his Moluccan background and record the stories of his ancestors. He wants to achieve this by taking game development courses as well as an Indonesian language course. 4DMagnetics will work with the Moluccan community and Het Moluks Museum.

Quiana Cronie

Quiana Cronie graduated from the Design Academy Eindhoven. Studio Quiana Cronie creates sustainable fashion and visual narratives that tell a cultural story as well as the forgotten and undocumented stories of Cronie's country of birth, Aruba. Cronie combines traditional Aruban workwear with new ways of pattern assembly and production. Central themes in Studio Quiana Cronie's work are Aruban heritage, upcycling, sustainability in fashion and visual storytelling. Cronie will use the development year to further develop her Aruban workwear project by refining her research, visual storytelling and practical skills. Specifically, this consists of experiments with new media like 3D fashion and Cinema 4D, and taking a course on making workwear and organizing an exhibition. During the year, Cronie will work with Rancho Aruba, Aruban locals and historians, Bibliotheca National Aruba, Plataforma Aruba, Krosshart Project, Botter Paris and Yvonne van Zijl. The research results will be displayed in a runway exhibition, a short film and a hybrid magazine. In addition to presenting her work on Aruba, Cronie wants to give a presentation in the Fashion For Good Museum, organize a screening and a pop-up event in a shop like The Bonne Suit Flagship and put online publications on her website and through Rancho Aruba.

Ro Buur

Ro Buur looks for ways to step outside the traditional disciplines and frameworks. They take on different roles within their multidisciplinary practice, such as storyteller, visual researcher, activist, feminist, film maker, photographer and typographer. Buur's practice act as a tool for expressing themselves on certain themes. This is their way of contributing to our reality, based on intersubjectivity instead of normativity. In the coming year, Buur wants to further develop themselves within the themes they have recently been interested in and have worked on but in which they have not yet been able to get a thorough grounding. Buur will receive guidance in this regard from researcher, artist Jan Hoek and documentary maker Nirit Peled. Buur also wants to delve further into developing concepts by enrolling in the IDFAcademy and taking a course at MK24. Buur's work will be presented in an installation at NEVERNEVERLAND.

Rosalie Apituley

In her work, product designer Rosalie Apituley focuses on the world around energy, the energy transition and communication problems related to this. In the coming year, Apituley wants to make new work for her Chasing Polar Bears project. She is challenging herself to take a more decisive and activist stance. Apituley will be mentored by Tega Brain, Sam Lavigne and Arne Hendriks in developing the speculative side of her work. Furthermore, she intends to take a course in Arduino and a residence on Spitsbergen. In 2024, she will present the results at The Solar Biennale and Springtij.

Samuel Rynearson

Grafisch ontwerper Samuel Rynearson onderzoekt de symbiotische relatie tussen de digitale en fysieke wereld. Een centrale vraag die hij stelt, is: hoe beïnvloeden objecten onze omgeving en vice versa? Een belangrijk thema in zijn werk is 'het ongewone' als een kenmerk van objecten, een ruimte tussen genres en classificaties, en een plaats voor verhalen die nergens anders thuishoren. Tijdens zijn talentontwikkelingsjaar zal hij de verschuiving van uitsluitend digitale kunst naar het creëren van fysieke objecten verkennen, die geworteld zijn in de digitale wereld. Dit zal vorm krijgen in een serie fysieke objecten die samen met ontwerper Jonathan Looman tuinen in Den Haag zullen sieren. Rynearson zal samenwerken met diverse ontwerpers, beoefenaars en kunstenaars op verschillende gebieden, waaronder keramiek, 3D-printing, digitaal kunstenaarschap, materiaalonderzoek en schrijvers die zich richten op het concept van 'vreemdheid'. Daarnaast zal hij live teken- en AutoCAD-cursussen volgen om zijn beurs te ondersteunen. Het resultaat van dit onderzoek zal samenkomen in een open-source digitaal archief, ontwikkeld in samenwerking met Paul Bille.

Sandipan Nath

Sandipan Nath graduated in 2020 with a master's degree in Industrial Design from the Royal Academy of the Arts. In the talent development year, Nath will focus on the interaction between language, listening and the freedom of choice in relation to non-human ecological processes and animals. In addition, Nath will research political data and technologies behind machine-listening systems like automatic voice recognition (AVR) and language processing (NLP). Nath has set himself a number of objectives, including experimenting with alternative presentation forms, practising with and using AI tools, professionalizing sound and video skills, cultural business skills and business strategies. The development plan consists of three phases. In phase 1, Nath will work with sociologist Darko Lagunas and artist Theun Karelse to develop his research and storytelling skills. He will be mentored in this regard by Lucas van der Velden and Marijke Cobbenhagen. In phase 2, Nath will be experimenting, and he will be mentored by researcher Dr Ramon Amaro. Furthermore, Nath will take an AI coding workshop in Berlin. In phase 3, Nath will reflect on the activities he has done. The different phases will be presented in subpresentations and workshops, including at the Rijksmuseum Twenthe and V2_Lab.

Sébastien Robert

Sébastien Robert is an interdisciplinary artist and researcher. With his projects, he researches disappearing indigenous sonic rituals and cosmologies. Sébastien seeks to archive them by developing alternative recording techniques using sustainable materials that reflect the traditions and geo-specific characteristics of the communities. In the coming year, he will start IN-FOR-OUT-TOWARDS, a new artistic project that focuses on a trans-Mediterranean instrument: the bagpipe. This instrument reflects on the interconnectedness of cultures around the Mediterranean and takes a critical look at the definition of traditions. In creating the work, he will be mentored by instrument makers Leo Maurel and he will work with creative programmer Lucien Nicou. To refine his own technical skills, he will take a Rhino workshop, do a residency at GMEM in France and a performance residency at CAMP in France. The work will be presented at Grey Space in the Middle, at the Rewire Festival in The Hague and at the Scopitone Festival in Nantes.

Shanella Bleecke

Shanella Bleecke is a multidisciplinary maker. As a film maker, programme maker, journalist, curator and politician, she spreads untold stories of the new generation and gives them a stage. The priority in the talent development year lies in developing a plan for a documentary about Surinamese women, called MATA'S. Going through the entire process is an effective method to further develop her talents as a digital storyteller. She will be mentored in this by documentary maker and director Sacha Vermeulen. During this development process, Bleecke also wants to keep on networking with both established documentary makes and starting makers. For this, she wants to work with The Black Archives, the Surinaams Nationaal Archief and Eye Filmmuseum. Bleecke's work specifically focuses on the Dutch-Surinamese community - for her presentation she wants to produce an exhibition in collaboration with Kunst is Leuk.

Sjoerd Willem Bosch

Designer Sjoerd Willem Bosch studied at the Technical University Delft and wants to create contemporary architecture in the Ommelanden, the countryside around Groningen. He regards his role as an architect as a mediator between the landscape, inhabitants and future scenarios. Topics Bosch works on include the loss of biodiversity and social and economic inequality which are manifested in the Groningen landscape as subsidence, salination and earthquakes. Using the grant, Bosch wants to broaden and strengthen his position as an architect in the non-urban landscape and obtain his architect's degree. His plan includes taking weekly walks in Ommeland as a 'listening architect' and meeting up with inhabitants from Groningen, officials and landscape experts, amongst others. Some of those Bosch will work with include Rien Korteknie, Sijas de Groot, Lieke de Jong, Zef Hemel, Christian Ernsten and Rubén Dario Kleimeer. The information gathered will be documented in models, sensory maps and drawings. Presentations will be given shape in articles on Platform GRAS, a Tumblr page, an exhibition and an essay.

Sun Lee

Sun Lee is a textile and social designer. She graduated from the Design Academy Eindhoven with a master's degree in Social design. During the development year, Lee will further delve into the historical and cultural crafts of paper art and paper cutting. As a Korean designer working in the Netherlands, she always stands at the boundary between maintaining her identity and adapting to a new environment. This is why she deeply connects with the philosophy embodied in craft history. She sees it as a collection of cultures that has been accumulated in specific regions and time. As she builds her practice, she finds a deeper connection working within the craft realm. It is clear that in the past, mankind developed a craft culture through numerous cultural exchanges of each country. She believes the various representations resulting from these exchanges don't bring identity crises, but create opportunities for cross-cultural development. Her study aims to examine the similarities and differences between cultural contexts, while also building on existing studies that focus on the transmission of knowledge and skills between cultures as well as the role of crafts in shaping cultural identity. Lee will carry out research, experiments and will work with experts and makers, including the Vereniging voor Papierknipkunst, the author Jan Peter Verhavem, Sjamaan Buwon Joe, artist Jae Pil Eun and researcher Lim Seung-Bum. Lee will work on the presentation of the development year with June Yoon, an American visual designer who currently works for the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. A final location will be selected in collaboration based on the reason behind the project.

Tessa van den Eeden

Fashion designer Tessa van den Eeden was selected during the Scout Night in Eindhoven. Inspired by our inner world, Van den Eeden sheds a light on difficult to discuss issues around mental health, like depression, burn-out and suicide, using haute couture. Using the Talent Development grant, she wants to realize a five-part design series, Les Finns, based on her own mental health struggles and realize a series of couture pieces, named US, realiseren, that tell the experiences others have with addiction. Van den Eeden will enhance her technical knowledge of and skills in materials and different body shapes by taking various courses. Van den Eeden will work with, amongst others, film maker Noël Oosterhof and music designer BLKTYLR, psychiatrists and addiction workers and marketing professional Eline Levering. At the end of the development year, she will have realized a digital portfolio and developed a presentation strategy.

Tofe Al-Obaidi

Graphic designer Tofe Al-Obaidi (Studio Tofe) graduated from ArtEZ. In his practice, he explores the 'digital realm' with coding software like Processing and P5.js and animation software like Blender, Unreal Engine and Cinema4D. Through animation or VR, but also through physical objects, he processes his Iraqi background, the Arabic language and culture and his experiences as a refugee in his work. Al-Obaidi wants to use his work as a means or experience to help people to save or process memories. Recurring themes are fleeing, integration, traumas and loss. Using the Talent Development grant, Al-Obaidi wants to further develop his Removing Dust Covers graduation project, from telling his own story to telling the stories of others. To do so, he wants to become more competent with various software techniques, data analysis and interpretation, design skills, psychological insight and interdisciplinary collaboration. Studio Tofe will work with Wineke Salemink, Remco van Baren, José Huibers and Janine Zielman. The work will partly be presented digitally and, in part, physically in the form of an exhibition and presentation at Dutch Design Week.

Tycho

Tycho creates interventions in the public space. Their work mainly deals with urban change, which they use to address and visualize themes like the housing shortage and gentrification. During the development year, Tycho will focus on three goals. Developing their research and design methods, specifically aimed at the gentrification theme. Tycho will be mentored in this regard by Massih Hutak. Utilizing new contexts with the help of Bureau Ruimtekoers and Bouke Bruins. And developing technical skills by taking a course at MK24 and masterclasses by Michel Alders. The development year will lead to three interventions: one in the outdoor space, one in the public indoor space and one on the instructions of an organization.

Zobayda

Audiovisual maker Zobayda was selected at the Scout Night in Rotterdam. With their work, Zobayda captures the queer and BIPOC community around her to enhance connections between people, knowledge and actions based on care. Zobayda is inspired by family beyond the nuclear and heteronormative structures, consisting of chosen family, close friends and loved ones. Zobayda's practice is non-individual, driven by the community and holds up a mirror to euro-centric views. The work can be expressed in film, photography, assembly and production. During the development year, Zobayda will work with theme rest. He will research this concept via literature studies, interviews and brainstorming with her community. Zobayda will also develop a sustainable business model and will learn about branding and building a brand identity. Zobayda will, amongst others, work with Yasmin Najiba, Setareh Noorani, Yasser Abubeker, Leyla Benouniche, Reda Senhaji, Ada M. Patterson and Rami Abadir. The findings will be presented via an archive website, a short film and an exhibition with panel discussions. Nieuwe Instituut and Bar Bario are possible presentation locations.

Zuzanna Zgierska

Zuzanna Zgierska is an interdisciplinary artist and researcher. She draws inspiration from indigenous relations with nature and is motivated to sketch climate conditions that escape the Western concept of 'classifying the world'. Zgierska is inspired by the capacity of minerals to store information and researches the possibility of rewriting colonial histories by means of geo-hacking. In the coming year, she will carry out a case study on the giant potbelly sculptures created by the ancient peoples of Monte Alto. To do this, she will do a residency on her own initiative in the Guatemalan Highlands. Here, she will work with Manuela Girón Recinos, an experienced film director and producer who specializes in this region. During the year, she will be mentored by Paulien Dresscher (art) and Annique van der Boon (science). In addition, Zgierska will take courses in hacking, scriptwriting and creative film editing to refine her artistic skills. The research will be published in an online reader and presented in spaces that go beyond white gallery environments. The actual space still needs to be defined, but local community centres and initiatives, education and workshop institutes, geological and scientific institutes and anthropological conferences are among the ideas.

Afsaneh Ghafarian Rabe’I

Afsaneh Ghafarian Rabe'I is an Iranian-Dutch self-taught photographer and visual artist. She creates layered images that translate into stories full of messages, symbols and paradoxes. 'As the daughter of migrant workers who ended up in the Netherlands in the late 1960s, I found out at a young age that the Netherlands is not the centre of the world, but that multiple realities can and do exist side by side.' This layered reality is also reflected in the techniques she employs. In addition to photographs she also makes collages, combining photography with paintings, screen printing and textiles.

For Parallel, which is due to be elaborated and released as a self-published art book, Ghafarian Rabe'I examines the parallel experience of second-generation Iranian Dutch nationals. 'It is specifically about the group that was born or grew up in the Dutch system as the result of a choice that their parents made. A world where the outdoors at first glance bears no resemblance at all to their roots. Iranians in diaspora are known for their rapid and successful integration and even assimilation. But the paradox is that many of them, despite not having been born or raised in Iran, maintain strong cultural links with their country of origin and often have a strong sense of homesickness and uprootedness.'

Besides her experimentation with images, this year Ghafarian Rabe'I also worked on her positioning and profile. Her first venture was to design a stamp that bridges her two cultures. 'I find it important to leave a stamp behind, literally from my own point of view.' The prints and merchandise in her online shop fulfil an important role in her communication with her target groups. This year she also exhibited for the first time the photographic series MHD SKATE 1401 – LIFE GOES ON, about the skating generation Z in the holy Iranian city of Mashhad. The series was displayed as part of the group exhibition QOQNOOS – You Can't Burn Woman Made Of Fire, curated by the Iranian-Dutch artist Tina Farifteh.

It has also been a taxing year. A few weeks after she started the Talent programme, the Woman, Life, Freedom revolution broke out in Iran, triggered by the death of the young Kurdish-Iranian woman Jina Mahsa Amini. It turned the world on its head, certainly for Ghafarian Rabe'I as well. A number of her original plans could not be carried out, but other plans soon took their place. As she says: 'It's all part of my practice; you learn to be resilient from a very young age.'

Alex Walker

Through his publishing project Mumbling Matter, graphic designer Alex Walker documents artistic practices that are grounded in resourceful, do-it-yourself and collective production methods. The project was launched in February 2023 with Growing Blue, a micro-site which hosts a collection of 102 paper and fabric filters that were used by textile designer Lucila Kenny to extract indigo pigment from the leaves of Dyer's Woad. Each individual filter shows different traces of the pigment, and as such are artefacts that capture a moment in time and an alchemic interaction with the plant.

The second project to be released as part of Mumbling Matter is Best of Days — a monograph documenting Octave Rimbert-Rivière's ceramic works. This book showcases the ceramist's experimental use of casting, glazing and the ways in which he incorporates digital 3D sculpture into the production process. Photographs of the works are reproduced using fluorescent CMYK, which emphasises the lively character of the objects.

In November 2023, Walker will launch the publication flower, fruit, leaf, husk and root: experiments in growing colour — another collaboration with Lucila Kenny and the third project to be released as part of Mumbling Matter. This publication documents the friendship and artistic collaboration between Kenny and artist Naan Rijks. Kenny and Rijks have a shared garden adjoining their studio which is part of their project Painting Plants. The publication contains conversations and photographs of the work, the studio and the artists' gardening activities. To share their knowledge and offer inspiration, the publication also includes a number of recipes. Each book has a unique silkscreen-printed cover, using homemade inks produced from plants in the artists' garden.

Anna Wonders

A strand of seaweed from a black beach on Iceland ends up on the workbench in Anna Wonders's studio in Zwolle. There, the seaweed is pressed into a synthetic rubber mould using a vulcanising press. After pouring wax into the mould, the wax replica of the seaweed is transferred into a cuvette, and plaster is poured in. Once the plaster has hardened, the wax is heated and poured off. The resulting mould can then be used to cast precious metals.

Wonders uses this ingenious and time-tested procedure to transform natural forms into gold and silver jewellery. Her latest collection is based on the curling form of a piece of seaweed. In the past year she was able to spend another month in the Icelandic studio where she performed her graduation internship in 2018, as part of the goldsmith education programme at the Vakschool Schoonhoven. She also invested in new equipment for her studio to enable the in-house production of her jewellery pieces. This marks a renewed start to her own business, with a shift in emphasis from commissioned work to developing her own work. To underline this new start, her own name is now the brand name. 'I think that the core of my discipline is about creating narrative. This is my story, alongside the customer's story.'

At the same time, Wonders is increasingly aware that, as a goldsmith, she is part of a chain. It's not just the relationship to the customer that matters, but she has also started contemplating her relationship to the people who mine the raw material – gold – for her. 'Being a goldsmith is a wonderful artisan practice, but when you really start looking into it, it often turns out to not be very sustainable.' That is why she works with Fairmined Gold: a quality label for gold sourced from responsible and small-scale mining organisations that guarantee that the gold is traceable and mined in a sustainable manner. Wonders also aims to increase this awareness among her customers and colleagues, and to show that you can choose for sustainably sourced gold. 'It's important to me that people choose my jewellery for the design, but also that they are happy with the backstage story. And that they want to join me in spreading this story and in that way to inspire others as well.'

Text by Roosmarijn Hompe

Anni Nöps

Sound artist and electronic composer Anni Nöps started her talent development year with a residency in Zurich, at the Institute for Computer Music and Sound Technology. There, she studied how the movement of speakers affects sound. In the conceptual installation Becoming an ocean, speakers produce a static hiss – a monotonous sound when they are at rest, but when they move around it creates the impression of waves. That sensory aspect of sound is what fascinates Nöps. 'Part of my research for this development year is “sonic materiality”. I want to study sound in the broadest sense, but also from the perspective of how sound can feel physical and tangible in a space.'

She has now studied these qualities of sound in a museum setting for the first time. The sound installation Borderlands (a collaboration with sound artist Casimir Geelhoed) will be open to visitors in Stedelijk Museum Schiedam for six months. No fewer than twenty-two speakers have been installed in the museum's attic. As the sound moves between them, the dark room enhances the senses, creating an intimate experience. With regard to the title, Nöps explains: 'In a way, you feel as if the sounds are coming from very far away, so you feel that you are part of the same world as the sounds, as it were, but not always. That creates a space that exists between the real world and the imaginary or virtual world.'

Presenting the installation in a museum allows a much larger and diverse audience to experience her work than at specialized festivals, resulting in different feedback than she is used to. She also intends to invite a choreographer to Stedelijk Museum Schiedam to respond to the sound with dance and motion (whereas usually in choreography, sound follows movement). Nöps is also working towards a music release, since she has also developed further in her compositions. Among other things, she participated in a mentorship programme to explore classical composition.

All in all, Nöps is satisfied with her development year. 'Being able to fully focus on my work has been amazing. It was wonderful to develop myself and be able to investigate things without knowing what the outcome will be.'

Text by Victoria Anastasyadis

Benjamin Earl

Technology helps us in our daily lives, boosting our productivity and making our lives more efficient. Since completing his master's studies in Non-Linear Narrative at the Royal Academy of Art, tech artist Benjamin Earl sees technology in poetic terms. This year, he wanted to conduct research that would ultimately lead to a 'home-made' computer – a DIY computer that would serve not only as a tool but also as company. 'I came to know computers in a new way this year. Not just as a slick interface, but as something built up out of materials that I can play with.'

In this past year, Earl joined the Varia collective in Rotterdam, which employs technology in poetic ways. In his opinion, the closer you zoom in on technology, the more poetry there is to be found. 'The language used for coding, for example, but also the way we deal with technology as a society. With my work, I want to bring the intangible into the foreground.'

While creating his computer, one aspect that Earl thought about was the power source. He chose solar energy. 'Using technology based on the sun's rotation is interesting. One direct consequence is that the computer does not work at night: like the rest of us, it sleeps.' A computer that 'goes to sleep' and functions in a cyclical manner: it is as poetic as our daily computer usage is prosaic. The fact that the computer does not function at all hours of the day is part of the project. 'You come to realise that there are limits to the way things were made.'

Finding likeminded others was a challenge. 'I found it difficult to break out of my bubble,' Earl says. Fortunately he had the computer by his side, who gradually became a friend of sorts that travelled with him. 'It gained a personality of its own, and because it worked on solar energy, I could use it outside in the park as well.'

The computer will never be completely finished in Earl's mind – an attitude that he also adopts when talking about his project. Always open and inquisitive; not adamant, but possessed of a certain carefulness. This approach was well received at the symposium Naive Yearly. 'I involved the audience in my findings, and that yielded a lot of positive responses and suggestions, which felt very good.' That was the moment when Earl's bubble broke, and he was able to find the kindred spirits he had been looking for. Thus, his DIY computer graduated from good company to matchmaker.

Text by Priscilla de Putter

Photo by Camilla Marrese

Colin Wegman

Music producer and sound designer Colin Wegman was born in Curaçao and moved to the Netherlands with his parents at a young age. For many years, he had a wish to do something involving the island where his family came from and still lives. Curaçao is therefore central to the development plan that he submitted to the Fund. Through music, he hopes to become more intimate with the feelings that Curaçao arouses in him.

Wegman travelled to the island for a month. He met and talked with many people, visited museums, and conducted research in music archives. With the traditional music of Curaçao as starting point, he studied the musical instruments that play a role in this musical tradition. That led him to the tambú, a drum that is played during celebrations and has long been used to perform protest songs. 'I visited the workshop of the first and only woman in Curaçao who makes her own instruments, Tatiana. She taught me how to make a tambú. This instrument came to the Caribbean from Africa and has always been used as a political statement. It is also a ritual instrument: the rhythms are played quite fast and create a kind of trance that I recognise from night clubs. Techno music was always associated with resistance, too. I was able to collect all kinds of ingredients, like another instrument, a benta, to take back to the Netherlands and use in my composition. There are a lot of similarities between club music in the Netherlands and the music of Curaçao, that's something I want to work with.'

Before his trip, Wegman spent some time working with Cosmic Force (the stage name of Ben Spaander). 'Cosmic Force has been active as a producer of Electro music in the Dutch dance scene for many years. I worked with him in his studio and learned a lot from him. It was a valuable experience that will help grow further.'

Wegman would like to capture the beauty of Curaçao in several tracks. With that in mind, he made a large number of audio recordings during his trip. 'There are some things that everyone experiences in Curaçao – the way the wind blows, for example. Where my family grew up, the wind is always strong. That's very familiar to me. My grandmother's veranda is always lively, with people coming and going. There's always the sound of chatting and cars passing by. And there's always the wind, which carries sounds from far away as well. All that together creates a kind of mystical quality, which you'll definitely be hearing in my music.'

Text by Maaike Staffhorst

Constanza Castagnet

Constanza Castagnet's design practice focuses on sound, technology and performance. She is particularly interested in language and voices, which allow us to express ourselves in all manner of ways. 'That fascination has been with me ever since I was a toddler,' she says excitedly. 'I used to mimic all kinds of voices and experiment with high and low tones.'

Talking in more depth about her work, the sound designer explains: 'I use sound, text, performance and video to create experimental environments in which I resist the temptation to use the voice as a shaper of meaning. I create eerie settings in which I use non-verbal and indefinable forms of expression to question our conventional understanding of communication.'

Castagnet came to the Netherlands from Argentina in the fall of 2019 for a two-year master's programme, Approaching Language, at the Sandberg Institute. During her studies, she focused her research on singing as a way to dissolve the structures of language. She created compelling installations that encouraged people to reflect on how preconceptions about meaning, sense and misunderstandings can be changed.

The currently ongoing discussions about new technologies are a subject of great interest to Castagnet. 'I am intrigued by the ways in which new technologies affect our lives and how we express ourselves, especially the unexpected ways they can be linked to the creation of sound.'

The project is in part an homage to her great-grandfather, who composed tangoes around the year 1930, largely in the capacity of ghost writer for other musicians. 'His own works had been lost, there were no more sound recordings to be found, but during a family visit in Buenos Aires I discovered the existence of a number of original scores. I was seized by the idea that I could revive his music using technology. First, I arranged a quartet performance of his original scores, and recorded that music in order create an archive of his forgotten works. I also had the ensemble perform my own reinterpretations of his works. Now, I am in the process of creating my own compositions using the collected materials, while for example also using AI and other generative software to transfer the woody tones of, say, a cello to my own voice recordings, endowing my voice with a phonic quality that it does not have by nature. Using all of these materials, I am currently preparing an album, which will be followed by a live presentation. Thanks to sound, I can find some sort of connection with my great-grandfather, even though I never knew him.'

Text by Iris Stam

Deborah Mora

Visual artist and designer Deborah Mora has loved nature for as long as she can remember. She grew up near Lago Maggiore in Italy, surrounded by nature and greenery. In her work, too, nature is present everywhere.

In the context of her artistic practice, she is interested in storytelling through combinations of image and sound. Mora studies how these components complement each other, produce stories, convey meaning, have tactile qualities and physical sensations. 'I am curious as to how physical and sensory ways of telling stories can mesh with my image-focused practice, using physical and digital techniques,' the designer says. She creates her audiovisual experiences in collaboration with artists from other disciplines, such as sound designers and musicians. For example, Mora (stage name: Orah) presented an audiovisual performance at FIBER Festival 2023, accompanying the premiere of Kenny Kneefel's (Shoal) new album with visuals that immersed the audience in new worlds where reality and illusion merge.

Mora takes another stride forward in her new project, which is to create a live performance in interaction with her audience. Because she misses hiking and cycling through nature, the designer is – during a brief spell back in the area where she grew up in Italy – spending a lot of time outside, zooming in on plants, insects and rocks with her macro lens. The resulting photographs, videos and graphic 3D animations will then be combined with collaborations with musicians, sound designers and dancers. Mora also wants to embrace spontaneity, improvization and intuition. After all, as a designer she can exercise a great deal of control. 'Visuals can always be corrected, the work is planned and structured,' she says. 'I am learning to relinquish control by working with musicians, dancers and performers whose practices are based more on improvisation. By organising live audiovisual performances, I am learning to accept the unexpected. To experience the physical in person, I took an intensive dance workshop at Amenti in Rotterdam.'

Exactly how she will fuse together music, dance and the interactive live performance remains a bit of a puzzle. Once all the pieces click together, Mora will present the result at arts and culture festivals, such as the next edition of FIBER Festival in Amsterdam. Visitors will have the opportunity to form their own interpretations of what they hear and experience, and the nature of the connection they feel with the natural world that Mora has created.

Text by Viveka van de Vliet

Dérive

Hedwig van der Linden and Kevin Westerveld met at Delft University of Technology, where they were studying for their master's degree in Architecture. After gaining experience in various internships and workplaces, they founded Dérive in 2022. Operating from Brussels and Rotterdam, their research-driven design practice focuses on scenography, public space, landscapes, co-creation and strategy. The socially engaged duo does so in a world full of transition issues, for instance in the areas of climate, biodiversity, food, water and mobility. 'We want to take steps, to bring fresh air to those complex issues, by taking a conceptual and co-creative approach and by being attentive listeners,' says Westerveld.

'We do so both upon request and at our own initiative, so that we can put issues on the agenda,' says Van der Linden. 'We are open-minded and embrace an intuitive and associative approach that lets us deviate from the established way of doing things. That deviation – whose meaning is encapsulated in the French word dérive – can be difficult because it requires more persuasion. But it also breeds excitement.' A sense of wonder, strolling around and studying environments at eye level are essential elements in Dérive's design practice.

Building on what is already there and operating on a basis of equality and a plurality of perspectives are two further important principles for Dérive. 'We want to involve a diverse group in the development or redevelopment of a given area, and to stimulate a public dialogue,' says Westerveld. Van der Linden elaborates: 'We relate to each other like amphibians, we speak different languages: the tongue of politics as well as of the citizen. All so that we can increase the involvement of the local community.'

The duo's application for the grant centred around a further investigation of the dérive method and its potential applications in various areas for their design practice. 'Around the time when we were awarded the grant, we were also selected for the Young Innovators programme and got the opportunity to create an exhibition design in collaboration with AIR and OMI Rotterdam,' Van der Linden explains. 'That gave us the confidence to investigate whether we can make Dérive a full-time practice.' Westerveld adds: 'We are working on various projects, in both fixed and variable collaborations.' Van der Linden: 'With the Dutch Design Week approaching, we are also turning our attention to our visual identity and our website, to share insights with young designers about the dérive method and how to run a firm, based on talks with various experts.' 'Transparency is important to us,' Westerveld notes. 'It's going to be a showroom full of stories.'

Text by Iris Stam

Elif Satanaya Özbay

Elif Satanaya Özbay's background is in film and video. She obtained her bachelor's degree from Design Academy Eindhoven in 2013, and her master's degree from the Sandberg Institute in 2017. Through her research-based works, the artist – born in the Netherlands and of Turkish Circassian descent – seeks to decode diasporic nostalgia within the horror genre by producing performances, visuals and installations.

With her project How to Trace a Forgotten Diasporic Identity, Özbay wishes to further develop both her inner storyteller and her inner researcher, as well as to investigate how she can make materials and information more accessible.

Talking about her background, the artist says: 'My ancestors come from Circassia and Abkhazia, an area in Caucasia, in northern Russia. Ethnic cleansing and genocides forced the Circassian people to flee in the late nineteenth century, creating a diaspora that halted the growth of this demographic group and caused their languages and cultures to slowly be forgotten.' Impassioned, she continues: 'I consider it an honour to create works around this theme. Even with my minimal knowledge, I can help resist this slide into obscurity. I believe that this is important for my community, and I also want to inform others about it. Most people don't know about Circassians, the region of Circassia or the genocide committed against Circassians.'

Özbay describes her project as 'research combined with performance, framed within the horror genre, using linking methods and mind mapping.' She explains further. 'I combine Circassian mythology, folklore and information about historic events with contemporary references, for instance from pop culture. The story's starting point is autobiographic. After that, I play with the idea that myths are born from a place of truth before gradually transforming into fiction. I use structure, but also intentionally create chaos. This way I try to tell my story in a playful and informative way, and to create new stories together with the audience.'

Following a number of educational studio visits and meetings with researchers and members of the Circassian community, Özbay is now focusing on further elaboration and presentation. The first performance has already been held in Antwerp, while the second version will be presented during the Dutch Design Week. The third and final version will be presented in December, again in Antwerp.

'The grant has given me freedom, recognition, time to conduct research, and opportunities to network and establish working relationships,' Özbay concludes.

Text by Iris Stam

Elizaveta Federmesser

When Elizaveta Federmesser used AI to create new designs based on a database of images of modern jewellery, the software soon came up with the image of a coin. She quickly realized that this is the archetypal form of jewellery in many cultures. For Federmesser, this lucky find opened up the idea that 'instead of creating something new, you can also look at how the new is actually the super old.' It made her wonder whether for every object group there is a source object that we forgot but AI can remember. She applied for the Talent Development Grant with a plan to 3D scan objects from prominent Dutch museum collections and feed them to AI as a dataset to discover the archetypal form of different object groups.

As she carried out the various steps of her plan, contacting museums and starting an acting course to work on her presentation skills, she realized that she needed a venture closer to heart. 'I wanted to expand the project, extend its scope by involving institutions, but instead I expanded into thinking: why do I even care?' She realized that she is not so much interested in the objects as in the stories behind them, the mythology and iconology that gives objects their unique meaning. This realization marked the start of an investigation into icons, mythology, archetypes, fashion theory and philosophy.

During this research, several pieces of the puzzle fell into place. Her new insights converge with her previous research on 'it' bags and coming-of-age stories, and Federmesser sees many similarities between these theories. 'I adopted the coming-of-age angle to examine these tropes. Many cultural theorists are talking about them, they just have different fields they want to influence. But then I realized I don't need to influence a field; I can just tell a story about interesting icons and tropes through a coming-of-age story to acknowledge what they mean and how they changed throughout time.'

The story will take the form of a self-published magazine, BagMag, in which essays and interviews are alternated with AI enhanced images. The first issue will be dedicated to the iconic as an enduring genre in media and everyday life. 'It is a teen magazine for reading adults who are curious about culture, fashion and ideas,' says Federmesser. 'What you might call a mixed bag.'

Text by Roosmarijn Hompe

Estelle Barriol

'I believe that we have to build differently in order to create future-proof, resilient and low-impact architecture,' says Estelle Barriol, founder of Studio ACTE, an architecture firm that specializes in designs based on reused materials. Sourcing those materials and subsequently using them for construction is something Barriol prefers to do personally. There are times when she feels more like a contractor than an architect.

The past year has given her a better grip on her positioning. 'The most interesting thing about applying for grants is that it forces you to think clearly and to figure out how you want to evolve and develop your practice.' One of her insights pertains to the scale of her work: that it needn't be very big. What is more important is that her design method of hands-on building is clear to see. She also realized that her practice, at heart, is shaped by a deep love for artisanal professions and regional or indigenous (vernacular) architecture.

This year gave Barriol the financial room she needed to participate in pitches that pay little or nothing: challenging competitions that do not always lead to a commission but are interesting in terms of substance and offer a good way to expand one's expertise. For example, she was able to elaborate her preparatory process with an additional step, engage in more on-site research into available materials, and create detailed models. She created a database of local materials, found among others at junk dealers and horticulturists, thereby further positioning Studio ACTE as an expert in the field.

Barriol was also able to further professionalize her practice in terms of the recording and documenting of projects and submissions. This is an important factor in acquisitions, especially because the reused materials are often not recognizable as such. This aesthetic aspect is something that Barriol also finds important. 'What kind of language could reuse bring to architecture? And how can we use the urban mine stocks to build in a substantial spatial manner, with design quality?'

Barriol has run her firm for three years, of which the past year was the most exciting: so many things came together. 'Because I could reshape all these thoughts about what reuse means and push it further, that created the chance to get selected and develop more meaningful projects.' The highlight of the year was the studio's selection for the French equivalent of the Prix de Rome, for which she is researching the antique recycling technique of spolia. Her contribution will be part of a group exhibition in Paris, along with the other selected participants.

Text by Victoria Anastasyadis

Florian Regtien

Florian Regtien is straight about it: 'I am addicted to the sewing machine, and I am content with that addiction.' Every piece of clothing he creates is unique and, in that sense, a work of art. Aside from that, he paints and creates mixed media sculptures and collages, often also with the use of his sewing machine. And he is an actor too. Clearly, Regtien has a strong drive to create: 'I just really enjoy making things. It's a kind of meditation, a thought process, something that gives me peace.'

Regtien wanted to use his talent development year to 'taste' a variety of traditional crafts and in doing so develop himself into a true multidisciplinary artist. He apprenticed under a shoemaker, a furniture maker and a goldsmith; he made sneakers, an ottoman, pedestals; he upholstered, learned how to weld, and took a painting course. During a residency in Japan, he dedicated himself fully to denim fabric. 'I was already in love with denim, but now I feel that this love has grown into something eternal.'

Initially Regtien was preoccupied with the techniques, striving to execute them as well as possible. But he gradually let go of that fixation and instead came to focus on the question: what do I want to make, and what do I want to say with my works? Expanding his toolbox of skills has multiplied the creative possibilities in his mind, allowing him to adopt a broader perspective. Now, the challenge is to channel all these ideas. In the past year he was assisted by a creative strategist, who helped him figure out and communicate his broad practice. Regtien will be presenting a selection of his various recent creations in a solo exhibition at Vrij Paleis in Amsterdam.

The many workshops and courses that Regtien took gave him new skills, but even more valuable is a new important insight: 'This year, the main lesson has been that you need to enjoy the process, instead of being obsessed with the end product.' This is symbolised in the artwork that he composed out of the lists he makes every morning, when he writes down everything he wants to get done that day, followed by a daily motto. The most important motto of the year sits at the piece's centre: Maybe I should seize the day. 'I really got to know myself better. I have more peace and more love for myself now.'

Text by Victoria Anastasyadis

Florian van Zandwijk

Florian van Zandwijk obtained his bachelor's degree in Design Art Technology (DAT) at ArtEZ in Arnhem in 2019. He works in the field of digital culture, both as an autonomous maker and on commission. The latter includes assignments as event organizer, curator, designer, producer and educator. Van Zandwijk describes his work as 'an unrelenting search for order in the chaos and complexity that surrounds us and an attempt to make some kind of sense of it.' He explains: 'We humans are constantly taking action to keep the systems, protocols and technologies running that we ourselves created. That incessant need, alongside humanity's inability to truly grasp and control, is central to my work.'

Van Zandwijk's focus is currently on De Arena, in which he investigates the football stadium as a metaphor for society. This project is a continuation of his ArtEZ graduation project, The Ball The Field The Arena, in which he interviewed workers and journalists from the worlds of data collection, stadium security, technological tools and the recording for TV of football. The book Homo Ludens by philosopher Johan Huizinga served as a basis for the project.

De Arena has already resulted in Spectacle of Sports, a performative lecture at W139 about the personal, political, cultural, social and technological aspects of the football World Cup. The performance was live-streamed on a large screen. This year also saw the emergence of a new video work, which Van Zandwijk created in the stadium of football club Sparta Rotterdam. It centres around a performative action that relates to technology: 'Before every match in the Eredivisie football league, someone has to bounce a football in the goal on both ends of the pitch to calibrate the television cameras, to ensure that all cameras register the bounce at the exact same moment. This prevents errors during the match itself, for example in the registration of offside. My video work centres on the absurdity of such obligatory protocols.'

Van Zandwijk is currently being mentored by curator Sanneke Huisman. 'My approach has gradually grown more direct. I am trying to develop fewer 'round' concepts and instead respond more to fleeting observations and inspirations, such as an online video or something that I encounter on the street and record. This has grown into a collection of works that I will present both online and in a physical setting in the coming months, for example via open calls and by organising a studio visit.' Concluding: 'Getting out there with my work is good for me. It takes me out of my comfort zone.'

Text by Iris Stam

Gijs Schalkx

At his graduation, designer Gijs Schalkx drew attention with his home-built moped, powered by methane gas that he personally 'harvested' from ditches. Why? Because what drives him is a desire to minimise his dependency on the infrastructure that shapes our lives and to demonstrate that we can do more than just consume. 'And because I am very interested in energy, mobility and vehicles, I thought to myself: you know what, I'm going to investigate how much driving a car actually costs.'

The intention to build a car with his own hands had been with him for a while, but the main question was: what should it be powered by? 'My first thought was electricity, but that would never satisfy my requirements and be low-tech at the same time. I would have had to build enormous batteries, so big that the car would be too heavy to move under its own power.'

After some further research, the designer came up with another answer: oil. Or rather, plastic. 'We all throw away so much of it, and plastic is made from oil. I wondered whether I could reverse the chemical process and convert plastic back into its original form, and then use that oil to power my car. It seemed like a very interesting idea.'

Schalkx found almost everything he needed to build his car at the scrapyard. 'Unfortunately, the car I chose turned out to be the most rotten one of the lot, so I had to cut out the entire floor in order to fix everything underneath it, including the brakes. I ground away all the rust and spent an enormous amount of time welding. Right after the official inspection, the engine broke, although I was able to replace it with another second-hand one. Now, the vehicle is road-ready.'

'For the Dutch Design Week, I want to have succeeded in getting the car to run on oil. But even that process has consequences that may not be entirely responsible. What I do is boil plastic on the car's roof until it evaporates, and cooling down those vapours gives me oil to fuel the car. One kilo of plastic yields a bit less than a litre of oil. So although my plan to make a car that I can fuel independently was a success, I am not completely self-sufficient as regards energy. I need plastic for each trip, and because of that I may end up having to start consuming more again. So how independent can you really be, nowadays? Everything has consequences.'

Text by Maaike Staffhorst

Hattie Wade

She was always one to ask critical questions, wanting to understand the frameworks that preserve a status quo in Europe. Hattie Wade questions what we accept as the truth with respect to our national heritage. Stories about the 'official' heritage can create a sense of national identity based on pride, which can lead to what Wade describes as 'toxic nationalism'. As an example: white nationalists in Great Britain – Wade's place of birth – protected the statues of slave traders during the Black Lives protests. And in the Netherlands, the Forum voor Democratie national party proposed a 'Dutch Values Protection Act', in response to the escalating debates about the figure of Black Pete (Zwarte Piet). 'This is rarely opposed by “contra-heritage”, that is to say, by understanding how the violence inherent to colonialism and imperialism is maintained through the contemporary frameworks of law, education and media,' she says.

Wade is working on three projects to expose this and to offer 'anti-venom', through extensive online, archival and field research. For example, she has interviewed Sadia Habib, a lecturer, researcher and project coordinator of Our Shared Cultural Heritage in Manchester Museum. Habib works with young diaspora communities to explore the question how heritage institutions can contribute to creating safe spaces where they can access heritage. Wade also interviews teachers and children in the Netherlands and Great Britain about the way colonial history is presented. She is working with the archaeology department of the municipality of The Hague to understand how historical stories are formed in response to archaeological finds. Her work will result in an experimental documentary. 'Wherever possible, I like to use audiovisual media to let the voices of others be heard.'

Her two other research projects focus on legislation. Wade is working with ARIJ, which is a network of Arabic research journalists in the Middle East and North Africa. The project concentrates on a colonial law from 1917 in Morocco, which protects forests on the one hand but that stimulates creating wildfires on the other, in order to facilitate the occupation of land. 'As a designer, I am able to represent their research in a spatial, sculptural exhibition, due to go on display in Jordan in December. I enjoy making complex and concealed information tangible, visible and comprehensible for the general public,' Wade says. 'I cannot cause systems to collapse but can make them wobble. And I hope that, a few generations after us, the narrative will have shifted to a more polyphonic, honest historical narrative and fairer laws.'

Text by Viveka van de Vliet

Igrien Yin Liu

Creative director and image creator Igrien Yin Liu (刘寅) had a clear idea in her mind when she formulated her plans for her talent development year. She would explore her own visual and personal i