Is General Hospital poised to bring beloved All My Children character Dimitri Marick to Port Charles? Get the scoop on the hunky Hungarian who was once married to Alex Devane (Finola Hughes).

ABC soap opera fans couldn't help but squeal in delight at the end of the Monday, February 8, episode of General Hospital, when a mysterious someone posted a letter to Peter (Wes Ramsey), and the return sender's name was seen as "D. Marick." While the D could stand for a million different names, All My Children fans immediately began hoping that it stands for Dimitri, a former Pine Valley citizen who was once married to Anna's sister, Alex Devane (Finola Hughes).

As Soap Central recently reported, GH writers Chris Van Etten and Dan O'Connor teased that they have planned a twist "nobody will see coming" for February Sweeps. Could that twist be that Dimitri is heading to Port Charles?! That would definitely be a twist that nobody saw coming -- though perhaps we should have, considering his connection to Anna's sister, Alex...

For those who don't know, All My Children's Dimitri (played by Michael Nader) was a rich, mysterious, and handsome Hungarian millionaire who arrived in Pine Valley in 1991. Initially in a storyline that explored the conflict-laden relationship between Dimitri and his brother, Edmund (John Callahan) -- who were both heirs to Hugo Marick's fortune -- Dimitri went on to have tempestuous relationships with many of AMC's most popular leading ladies, including Erica Kane (Susan Lucci), Maria Santos (Eva LaRue), and Alex Devane (Hughes).

Dimitri met Alex when, after experiencing a series of mysterious dizzy spells, he flew to Europe to get checked out. Alex was the neurologist who helped him get well -- and later became his wife. Dimitri and Alex's marriage only lasted a few years, but it was full of excitement the entire time that the couple was together. For instance, there was a time when everyone thought that Dimitri had died, so Alex moved on with his brother, Edmund, who helped her investigate her past when she began having strange memory flashes. It turned out that Charlotte (Samantha Eggar), the woman Alex believed was her mother, had brainwashed her into thinking she was Anna Devane so that she could assassinate the secret agent!

Alex was understandably shocked to discover that her life was a lie and that she had a twin sister she never knew about. What's more, Dimitri was actually alive -- Charlotte had kept him hidden in a Welsh hospital when she learned he'd been digging in Alex's past!

Shortly after Dimitri reunited with Alex, she suddenly disappeared to Canada. Dimitri and Edmund eventually tracked her down and found that she had gone to help nurse Anna back to health. Anna was transported to a private wing of Pine Valley Hospital, where she eventually recovered. However, the sisters' reunion wasn't a smooth one. When an assassin meant for Anna accidentally killed Dimitri's cousin, Gillian (Esta TerBlanche), in 2001, Alex blamed herself, and thus, she and Dimitri moved to Europe.

Dimitri returned to Pine Valley several years later, claiming that he and Alex were no longer together... but an explanation was never given. Might now be the time that fans finally get the full story as to what happened -- told on General Hospital? And how might "D. Marick" fit into the story between Alex -- who is presumed dead at the moment -- and Alex's son, Peter? A quick trip to the Google cave shows that the address on the envelope could belong to an elementary school... or a hotel. Or perhaps a hospital. And what about the "V" that appears after the name? Dimitri was not part of a long line of Dimitris -- his father's name was Hugo. Dimitri's only known son was named Anton. Could this be an unknown offspring? Perhaps a previously unknown member of the Marick family? So many questions and the only way to find the answers is to keep tuning in to General Hospital to find out!

What do you think about GH introducing "D. Marick" into the picture? Do you think it could be AMC's Dimitri? We want to hear from you -- so drop your comments in the Comments section below, tweet about it on Twitter, share it on Facebook, or chat about it on our Message Boards.