Names That Mean Dream for Boys

Most baby boys turn out to be sensitive and confident human beings. This directory of the best boy names that mean dream will help us get insight into the world of names that can be enchanting in their own ways.

1. Almos

Derived from the root word Almos meaning ‘drowsy’, this Hungarian name means “dream” or ‘sleepy.’

2. Alweo

This is a name of Latin origin that means ‘a dreamer at heart’.

3. Arien

Arien in Greek means ‘a dreamy person’.

4. Arman

Derived from Kazakh origin, Arman means ‘dream vision’.

5. Baduli

This name of Indian origin means ‘dreamer’.

6. Bruadair

This Irish- Gaelic name means ‘dream’.

7. Bruadar

An Anglicized form of the Irish Ó Bruadair, this Gaelic name means ‘dream vision’.

8. Bruatar

Bruatar means ‘dream’ as per Gaelic origin.

9. Ceeven

This Hindu name denotes ‘a name that is given to a person in the dream.’

10. Chavez

Originating in Spain, Chavez means “dream maker”.

11. Cheelem

Cheelem means ‘dream’ in Hebrew.

12. Cimon

This Latin name means ‘sleepy.’

13. Dilshad

Dilshad in Arabic means ‘one who has dreamy eyes.’

14. Dissaith

Dissaith in English means ‘A daydreamer.’

15. Eidniuet

Derived from ancient Welsh origin, Eidniuet means ‘day dreamer’.

16. Endri

Derived from Albanian, Endrimeans’ dreamer’.

17. Esperaunce

Esperaunce in French means ‘to dream’ or ‘to hope.’

18. Gabriel

Derived from Arabic origin, Gabriel is associated with angels in the Bible and is of Arabic origin.

19. Gramercy

Derived from the french origin, Gramercy means ‘dream’.

20. Granger

This name of English and French origin refers to a person living in the dream world.’

21. Grangere

Grangere means’ dreamer’ in English.

22. Grantley

This Old English name refers to a ‘dreamer.’

23. Hulum

Derived from Gaelic origin, Hulum means ‘dream’.

24. Ialu

This Egyptian name means “field of dreams.”

25. Israel

This name of Biblical origin means ‘dreams’.

26. Jonn

This Old English name means ‘dream big’.

27. Joldewin

This Old English name means ‘dreamers’.

28. Khamari

Khamari in African means’ moonlight.’

29. Kimon

This Latin name means ‘sleepy.’

30. Lorien

This name of literary origin means ‘a God of dreams’.

31. Lourdes

Lourdes name of French roots,

32. Morpheus

Derived from Ancient Greek, Morpheus is a god associated with sleep and dreams.

33. Narcisco

This name of Spanish and Portuguese origin means ‘sleep’ or ‘numbness’.

34. Narcissus

Narcissus stems from the word ‘narke’ and means “numbness” or “sleep” in Latin.

35. Narkissos

Narkissos in Greek means’ sleep’.

36. Narcyz

Narcyz in Polish means’ sleep’.

37. Ramiel

Derived from Arabic and Hebrew origin, Ramiel means ‘vision’.

38. Rasui

Rasui in Egyptian means’ dream’.

39. Remiel

Remiel in Hebrew means ‘Mercy of God’. Remiel is responsible for giving people divine visions in the Book of Enoch.

40. Reve

Reve in french means’ dream’.

41. Swapan

This exotic Hindu name means ‘dream.’

42. Swapnili

This Hindu name means ‘dreamlike’.

43. Swapnadeep

Swapandeep in Hindu names for boys means ‘king of dreams.’

44. Swaranlal

This name of Hindu origin means ‘a dreamy person.’

45. Yeraz

This stylish Arabic name means ‘dream.’

Girl Names That Mean Dream

Creatively hatched names for girls that mean dream evokes a magical and mesmerizing vibe. Here are some examples of unique girl names with dreams as their meanings that can become favorite and extremely popular among parents.

1. Ahlam

Ahlam in Arabic means’ imaginative dreams.’

2. Aislin

This Irish name means ‘vision’ or ‘dream’.

3. Aisling

This beautiful feminine name means ‘dream’ in Gaelic.

4. Aislinn

ThisIrish name means ‘vision’.

5. Alora

Alora means ‘my dream’ in the Bantu language of Africa.

6. Alviva

This English name means ‘a dreamer.’

7. Amani

Amani in Arabic means’ desire,’ or ‘wishes.’

8. Bhranti

This name of Gaelic origin means ‘day dream’.

9. Deisy

Deisy means’ dreams’ in French.

10. Dream

This English name refers to ‘vision.’

11. Eislyn

This Old English name means ‘beautiful dream’.

12. Fantasia

Fantasia means ‘fantasy’ in Italian.

13. Goda

This Lithuanian name means thought or ‘dream.’

14. Godusa

This Old English name means ‘big dream’.

15. Guaraman

This Irish name means ‘dreamer’ in Irish.

16. Guenhwyvar

This Gaelic name is suitable for a girl who wants to live out her dreams.

17. Hayal

This is a name of Old English origin meaning ‘dream’.

18. Hayali

Hayali means’ dream girl’ in Arabic.

19. Imena

Imena means ‘dream’ in Africa.

20. Isleen

Isleen means’ vision’ or ‘dream’ in Irish.

21. Joetta

This old English origin name means ‘dreamer’.

22. Josephine

This name of Biblical origin represents visions.

23. Joya

This name of Old English origin means ‘fulfilled dreams’.

24. Juli

This name of Old English origin means ‘high dreams’.

25. Kalpana

Kalpana means ‘dream-like’ in Sanskrit.

26. Kanasu

Kanasu means ‘dream’ or ‘imagination’ in the Hindi language.

27. Mamu

Mamu refers to an ancient Babylonian god or goddess of sleep and dreaming.

28. Marzena

This Polish name means ‘dreamed one’.

29. Maya

Maya means ‘illusion’ in Sanskrit.

30. Mimoza

This name of Albanian origin means ‘vision’.

31. Nara

This gorgeous name means ‘dreamland’ in French.

32. Narcissa

This Latin name means ‘sleep’.

33. Niorun

Niorun is the Norse goddess, but she may have been the goddess of dreams.

34. Nisa

This short, cute, and easy-to-pronounce Thai name means night, dreams.

35. Nyx

Nyx means night, according to Greek mythology.

36. Oniria

The Spanish name stems from the word oneiric, meaning dreamlike.

37. Pasithea

According to Greek legend, Pasithea was the goddess of meditation, rest, and relaxation and was the wife of Hypnos, the god of sleep.

38. Penelope

Penelope is a brilliant name for a baby girl, which means ‘illusion’ or ‘dream’ in French.

39. Reverie

This alluring French name has a mesmerizing meaning. Reverie means “daydreams” and “one who daydreams and contemplates a lot”.

40. Roya

Roya means dream or vision in Persian.

41. Sanja

The fantastic Serbian and Croatian name means dream.

42. Sovanna

Sovanna means golden, dream in Khmer.

43. Swapnali

This beautiful name with Irish Gaelic roots, “dream girl”, is perfect to name for your little bundle of joy.

44. Vienna

This exquisite girl’s name derived from Austria is referred to by Europeans as the “city of dreams”.

45. Yerazig

This is a name of Armenian origin that means ‘little dream’.

Unisex Names Meaning Dream

Gender-neutral names that mean dream can motivate children of both genders to learn, become more responsible for their choices, become more accountable, address failures, and work to achieve success in life. Here is a comprehensive list of names that may come to your aid:

1. Alyan

This Arabic name means ‘the one accomplishing impossible dreams’.

2. Armaan

Armaan means ‘wishes’ in Urdu.

3. Ametes

This Basque name means ‘dream’.

4. Ash

This English name means ‘dream’.

5. Ayumu

This Gaelic name means ‘dream.’

6. Gudea

Gudea was an Ancient Sumerian king who reconstructed the Temple of Ningirsu in a dream.

7. Guifil

This name of Chamoru origin means ‘dream’.

8. Joydever

This name of Gaelic origin means ‘dream big’.

9. Menaali

This is a name of Gaelic origin that means’ dreamland’.

10. Ruyaaa

Ruyaaa means ‘dreamy’ in Gaelic.

While chasing dreams can be challenging, it is also rewarding at the same time. Hence, giving names that mean dream may be a wonderful idea to add charm to your child’s personality.