I am sure I don’t need to give Sister Act much of an introduction. The first Sister Act movie, directed by Emile Ardolino was released in 1992, when I was just 12. The film, starred Whoopi Goldberg and was an iconic feel good comedy- full of laughter, friendship and energy. It has been YEARS since I saw the film, and I was really looking forward to Sister Act the Musical UK Tour – live at the Regent Theatre, Stoke-on-Trent.

Disclosure: This post contains affiliate links. Should you click to purchase, this is at no extra cost to you, but I receive a small commission.

Sister Act the Musical UK Tour is Live at there Regent Theatre Stoke on Trent, from Monday 25th September 2023 – Saturday 30th September 2023

So…What is Sister Act musical about?

Disco diva Deloris’ life takes a surprising turn when she witnesses her gangster boyfriend shoot someone. She is placed under protective custody and is hidden in the one place she shouldn’t be found – a convent of course! The story develops and Deloris is encouraged to help the struggling choir, and she helps her fellow sisters find their souls and their true voices whilst unexpectedly rediscovering her own.

Featuring original music by Tony® and 8-time Oscar® winner Alan Menken (Disney’s Aladdin, Enchanted) and songs inspired by Motown, soul and disco, this spirited musical is uplifting and feel good.

Sister Act the Musical Review 2023

I love a visit to the Regent Theatre. I love the hustle and bustle as you arrive at the theatre for the show, and I love the music, lights, choreography and pure talent on stage every single time. Sister Act didn’t let me down. Landi Oshinowo played the part of feisty, nun on the run Delores brilliantly. Landi has an amazing stage presence and charisma, and her voice… well it is just incredible. Mother Superior is played by Lesley Joseph who has wonderful stage presence, humour, wit and energy. The musical numbers included ‘take me to heaven’ and raise your voice’ and had everyone tapping their feet and clapping to the beat.

Sister Act is fun and feel good, and highlights the importance of friendship, sisterhood, growth and forgiveness. It is a show full of energy and laughter with plenty of sequins and show stopping music that will bring a smile to your face.

Sister Act the musical Theatre Cast

Delores Van Cartier – Landi Oshinowo

Mother Superior – Lesley Joseph

Eddie Souther – Alfie Parker

Sister Mary Robert – Lizzie Bea

Curtis Jackson – Ian Gareth-Jones

Sister Mary Patrick – Isabel Canning

Sister Mary Lazarus – Jackie Pulford

Monsignor 0’Hara – Philip Arran

Sister Mary Martin of Tours – Lori Haley Fox

Sister Mary Theresa – Wendy-Lee Purdy

TJ – Bradley Judge

Pablo – Damian Buhagiar

Joey – Callum Martin

Michelle – Esme Laudat

Tina – Amber Kennedy

Clement – Castell Parker

Cop/Bartender – Joseph Connor

HOW LONG IS Sister Act the musical?

The show opens at the Regent Theatre, Stoke-on-Trent on Monday 25 September – Saturday 30 September 2023, with shows Monday to Saturday at 7.30pm, and a show at 2.30 pm on Wednesday and Saturday.

The Sister Act Musical has a running time of 2 hours and 30 minutes, including an interval.

WHAT AGE IS Sister Act the Musical FOR?

Sister Act UK Live Tour has an age guidance of 12+.

WHERE IS THE REGENT THEATRE, STOKE-ON-TRENT

Piccadilly

Stoke-on-Trent

ST1 1AP

Tel: 08448717649

PARKING NEAR REGENT THEATRE, HANLEY

There are a number of car parks within easy walking distance from the theatre. The car parks include:

Stoke On Trent Glass Street

Pall Mall Car Park

John Street Car Park

Marsh Street Car Park

Sister Act the Musical UK Tour: Regent Theatre – Final Thoughts

A heavenly musical sent from above (sorry had to get that one in!) Sister Act is a feel good, must-see show which will be sure to put a huge smile on your face and make your soul sparkle on a September day.

You won’t be disappointed! Get your tickets now for Sister Act at The Regent Theatre, Stoke

This is one show not to miss.

Disclosure; We were provided with tickets in exchange for a review. All thoughts are my own.