Selahattin Demirtaş, the jailed former co-chair of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP), called on the Turkish parliament and opposition not to remain silent regarding Turkey’s alleged use of chemical weapons against the Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) guerrillas in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. “To pass it off with silence is to confirm the crime,” he said via his Twitter account on Wednesday.

Turkey’s main opposition Republican People’s Party (CHP) MP and Grand National Assembly of Turkey’s (TBMM) Human Rights Inquiry Committee member, Sezgin Tanrıkulu, announced that he would submit a parliamentary question on the accuracy of the images that support the allegations on Thursday.

Demirtaş noted that his lawyers informed him about the video footage released by the People’s Defence Forces (HPG) on Tuesday, which shows a group of Turkish soldiers with a device allegedly to deliver an explosive chemical device. The footage also shows guerrilla fighters suffering from the alleged chemical attacks.

After the video’s release, HPG announced that 17 guerrilla fighters were killed in Turkey’s chemical weapons attacks.

A lawyer and human rights advocate himself, Demirtaş, suggested that using chemical weapons is an international crime against humanity. He said that an independent international delegation should go to the region and investigate.

Stating that the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP) and far-right Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) government has no bounds in its war policy, the prominent imprisoned Kurdish politician said, “Those who commit such a crime will be held accountable before an independent judiciary.”

The Turkish Medical Association (TTB) Chair and forensic medicine specialist Professor Şebnem Korur Fincancı said in a Medya Haber broadcast that after she went over the footage she concluded that some sort of toxic chemical gas that directly affects the nervous system was used.

Presidential spokesperson İbrahim Kalın denied the accusations that the Turkish Armed Forces (TSK) used chemicals on Thursday.

Demirtaş has been imprisoned in Edirne Prison in Turkey since 2016.