Recent Headlines

Within Retail

Hot Moon Collection Launched Targeting Boomer Females

New Site for Women 40+ by Women 40+ Addresses Distinct Shopping Needs - January 21, 2007 - Hot Moon Collection

The Web's First Gift Site for Flip Flops

Flip Flop O Gram.Com launched in August 2006 and is delighting customers everywhere with a new alternative to gift-giving. The first of its kind on the web this footwear company has taken the popular and beloved flip flop, added some free gifts and attractive packaging, and is surprising recipents all over with "flipflopograms" on their doorsteps! Forget the flowers, send a Flip Flop O Gram! - January 20, 2007 - Flip Flop O Gram.Com

Dust Mites Top List in Allergy Survey

68 percent of allergy sufferers indicated a problem with dust mite allergy in a recent survey at achooallergy.com. - January 20, 2007 - achooallergy.com

COMP Cams® Introduces New 10-Degree Titanium Super Locks™

Strong, lightweight valve locks deliver premium performance benefits. - January 20, 2007 - COMP Performance Group

Legendary Surf Photographer Leaves Life’s Gift

Legendary photographer Warren Bolster (1947-2006) who pioneered surf photography for 30 years with 600+ covers and hundreds of articles in Surfer, Surfing, Sports Illustrated, National Geographic & the Wall Street Journal left a very limited Collection of his favorite images. "The Boster collection is my gift and my life." This collection will be shown for the first time at an open premiere in San Diego on January 25th 2007. The event will be at the Michael Weis Gallery on 5th Ave from 6-10pm. - January 19, 2007 - The Bolster Collection

Pet Dental Health is as Easy as 1-2-3

National Pet Dental Health Month is approaching quickly. Sponsored by a number of well known organizations including the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA), American Veterinary Dental Society (AVDS), Academy of Veterinary Dentistry, American Veterinary Dental College and Hill's Pet... - January 19, 2007 - GregRobert Enterprises, Inc.

Quad Pods are Coming! Video Camera Stabilizers and Steady Pods at Quad-Pods.com

Tom Barrera, the inventor of a Video Camera Stabilizer System called Quad-Pods, announced their new product line targeted to professional videographers. Also new, the Quad Pod Junior for consumer video enthusiasts and the Quad Pod Combo for photo-videographers. - January 19, 2007 - Quad-Pods.com

Da Vinci Innovation Group Introduces New Patented Tool for Safely Removing Ticks from People & Pets

THE TICK TOOL launched just in time for expected boom in tick populations. - January 19, 2007 - The Tick Tool a Da Vinci Innovation Group Company

Audio4Fun Releases AV Voice Changer Software Diamond 5.0

Audio4Fun (a.k.a. AVnex Ltd.) has announced the release of its latest version of AV Voice Changer Software Diamond 5.0, with new features and enhancements: http://www.audio4fun.com The latest version includes four major, new features: 1- Voice Mimicker – By using similarity analysis,... - January 19, 2007 - AVSoft Corp.

Forbidden Love and Valentine's Day Butterflies

The tragic tale of the Butterfly Lovers shows why butterfly jewelry is popular as a symbol of love. Silver Butterfly Jewelry announces a special Valentine's Day deal for the first 100 customers only. - January 19, 2007 - Silver Butterfly Jewelry

Parody Mixer - Most-wanted New Feature of AV Voice Changer Software Diamond 5.0

AV Voice Changer Software Diamond 5.0 boasts some new features suggested by previous version’s users. Among them, Parody Mixer is the most favorite feature voted by its earliest customers. - January 19, 2007 - AVSoft Corp.

BrandNew Clothing Announces Website Launch

BrandNew is an esoteric luxury brand focused on rapid fashion for distinguished youth. The Company designs and sources clothing and accessories, distributing through a network of retail boutiques & wholesale channels worldwide. - January 19, 2007 - BrandNew Clothing

SeeMore Introduces New mSeries Putters

The SeeMore Putter Company, whose putters’ performance has become legendary with the world’s best players, introduces its new mSeries. The new putter series combines the beauty, precision, accuracy, and feel of 100% milled heads with the proprietary and proven alignment benefits of... - January 19, 2007 - SeeMore Putter Company

InvitingLighting.com Adds Gift Registry with Partial Purchase Feature

InvitingLighting.com recently completed the integration of a new gift registry service that features partial-purchase ability. - January 19, 2007 - eWish.com

The Church Music Publishers Association Endorses J.W. Pepper & Son, Inc. as the Print on Demand Music Supplier for Its Publisher Members

J.W. Pepper’s print on demand service enables music retailers to provide print music that otherwise may not have been available. Older and lower turn publications are often economically difficult for publishers to keep in print through traditional means. Pepper’s print on demand service... - January 18, 2007 - J.W. Pepper & Son, Inc.

RainUrbana Extending Customer Service by Offering an Ecommerce Website

RainUrbana introduces www.rainurbana.com online shopping boutique. Establishing an Internet presence to offer all clients the same shopping experience they have at the boutique. Owner Francisco said, “We felt that there was a true need to satisfy all our customers, not always being a local... - January 18, 2007 - RainUrbana

Rachel Bracelets Unveil the Valentines Day Limited Edition Collection

The New Valentine Collection of Rachel Bracelets has been released! The collection consists of sweet bracelets with their matching boxes in Rachel Bracelets for the girl in your life and Lil Rachels for the little girl in your life! The Bracelets have all been titled and are original pieces by... - January 18, 2007 - Rachel Bracelets

Re Gifts Eco-Friendly Gift Shop Inspires Change Through Gifting

No, this is not the place to bring your unwanted gifts! “Re Gifts” gift shop, opened four months ago, hoping to redefine the Seinfeld-ian phrase coined by Julia Louis-Dreyfus’ character Elaine. The “RE” in Re Gifts stands for recycle, reclaim, reuse, re-purpose, and... - January 18, 2007 - Re Gifts

Improve Your Vision Naturally with Free Audio File

Best-selling authors legacy lives on -Live tele-class to be offered worldwide by daughter of Eyesight Improvement legend Dr. Janet Goodrich. - January 17, 2007 - Heal Your Eyes

The Vibration Exercise Store is Now Open - Whole-body Vibration Exercise the Hottest New Weight-loss Workout - www.vibration-exercise-store.com

The world-wide explosion of Vibration exercise fitness has hit North America with a bang! These vibration machines are selling like hotcakes even though they're priced from around $5000 to $14,000. The Vibration Exercise Store now has these cutting edge machines for an affordable price and will... - January 17, 2007 - The Vibration Exercise Store

Have a Heart… from Chukar Cherries

Chukar Cherries releases new Cherry Heart Box in time for Valentine's Day and National Cherry Month. - January 17, 2007 - Chukar Cherry Company

Fashionable, Functional, and Futuristic, ê Shave Announces Their Latest Razor Line: The 5 Blades Luxury Razor

For the fashion conscious male, the ultimate shaving experience just got even better. ê Shave, a pioneer in the field of modernizing the concept of wet-shaving, is excited to introduce their latest design creation. Incorporating their signature, hand-made, sleek and sophisticated design with the Gillette® Fusion™, ê Shave continues to turn the wet-shave into an unparalleled experience. - January 16, 2007 - êShave Inc.

Three Multimedia Product Lines to Download at Mediamorpher Center

Mediamorpher.com- Media Player Download Center presents 4 lines of multimedia products for users to free download and enrich their high-tech tools collection. Details of the downloadable stuffs can be found at http://www.mediamorpher.com/free-media-player-download.htm. Media Morpher Center... - January 16, 2007 - AVSoft Corp.

FlyingPeas Adds Gift Registry Service Powered by eWish.com

FlyingPeas, a recently launched weboutique dedicated to selling hip baby products, today announces a new gift registry service designed to make gift buying simple and convenient. FlyingPeas.com recently launched their new online store, where fashion meets function and hip meets high quality. Owner Terra Carmichael says that finding hip and high quality baby products can be hard to find. - January 16, 2007 - eWish.com

Spring Hill Merchant (www.SpringHillMerchant.com) -- Offering the World a Taste of Western North Carolina

While most companies are working to bring the global market to small town America, one company is working to bring small town America to the global market through the launch of a new website. - January 16, 2007 - Spring Hill Merchant

ArtisticHomeowner.com Offers Wall Murals for Every Taste and Fancy

With over 4,000 stock images to choose from, ArtisticHomeowner.com is proud to offer secure online shopping for beautiful Wall Murals and Custom Wall Murals. - January 16, 2007 - ArtisticHomeowner.com

The Cereal Bowl Introduces Strawberry Cheesecake Oatmeal

The Cereal Bowl introduces this exciting new combination of breakfast and dessert all in one bowl. - January 16, 2007 - The Cereal Bowl

BBDNY.com, Only One Year Old, Launches Virginia Phillips Baby New York a Baby Apparel Label

BBDNY.COM is New York City’s Premier Baby Gift Resource. Opened in August 2006 as a luxury, personalized, baby gift store, it has completed a new high end ecommerce site in October and will now launch an entirely new Baby Apparel and Bedding Label this Spring. Virginia Phillips Baby New York... - January 15, 2007 - Virginia Phillips Baby New York

Herbal Hugs Natural Therapy Expands Product Lines to Fit Growing Consumer Demand

A small business success story by a Canadian Mompreneur® - January 15, 2007 - Herbal Hugs

Dikuza Shoes Showcase Red Carpet Glamour at WSA

Debut at WSA Stylewalk Runway Show Highlight for Allure Luxury Brand - January 15, 2007 - Dikuza Shoes

Unique Design Contest for Dog Lovers

A Pet’s World, a leading manufacturer of upscale pet products and a sponsor for Pet Fashion Week NY, is sponsoring a unique contest on their retail web site. It is a design contest for dog apparel, dog toys and Christmas stockings for cats and dogs. The company will pay each winner $50.00 for... - January 15, 2007 - A Pet's World

Breakthrough Software Developed by Thespyphone Ltd Can Convert Any Latest Nokia Phones into a Sophisticated Spy Device

A Hi-Tech software development specialising in development of software for Symbian enabled mobile phones has advanced the technology of intercepting mobile phone calls and text messages. Thespyphone Ltd is the only company to develop a Spy Phone Solution as 100% software based solution which... - January 15, 2007 - TheSpyPhone Ltd

Heart-shaped Green Teas for an Alternative Valentine’s Day Gift

The most common Valentine’s Day gift of assorted chocolates is no longer acceptable for many people, and their sweeties are obliging them by giving them a heart-healthy alternative gift of a handcrafted heart-shaped green tea, instead. - January 15, 2007 - China's Secret Ltd

Don’t Wait Until the Last Minute to Send Your Valentine’s Day Gifts

Shop early, choose delayed delivery, and save. - January 15, 2007 - Bounty Full Baskets

Audio4fun Released a Well-to-do Tutorial Store for AV Movie Editing Software

To better support the growing users of Movie Morpher software line which has been launched since last October, Audio4fun Technical Team have worked hard to give out a profuse tutorial store for installing and using the movie editing software. Those who are interested in movie editing and movie... - January 15, 2007 - AVSoft Corp.

Local Jewelry Designer Unleashes New Business for Dogs

Jewelry Designs Gone to the Dogs. Fancy dog collars and cat collars for the pet in your life. Treating Them as Royalty. - January 14, 2007 - Designed Dog Collar

Nail Gun Depot Announces Its 2007 New Product Categories

Nail Gun Depot is pleased to announce a variety of new product additions for 2007. They strive to save time and money for both contractors and do-it-yourselfers. - January 14, 2007 - Nail Gun Depot

Expanded Directories Now Include Dog Breeders, Rescues, Pet Friendly Resorts and Dog Insurance Providers from Around the World

Dog Owners From Across the Globe Have Access to Extensive and Free Canine Resources and Dog Related Content through www.K9Kloud9.com - January 13, 2007 - Dog Quality Enterprises

FanDecor.com - Sports Themed Home Decor Online Store Launches Revamped Online Presence

Launched in 2002, FanDécor.com has been the premier site on the Internet for difficult to find, sports themed, home furnishings. Working with multiple vendors, FanDecor.com has brought together a unique blend of home furnishings for their sports minded clientele. - January 13, 2007 - FanDecor.com

New Caigua Herbal Supplement from Amazon Botanicals

Amazon Botanicals LLC manufactures a new cholesterol herb supplement made from Peruvian caigua. Caigua has been demonstrated to reduce serum cholesterol and is a well-known cholesterol herb. The 1995 study by Gustavo F. Gonzales of the University Peruana Cayetano Heredia in Lima, Peru was published in the respected peer-reviewed Journal of the North American Menopause Society (Vol.2, No.4, pp.225-234). - January 12, 2007 - Amazon Botanicals

New Jergon Sacha Herbal Supplement from Amazon Botanicals

Amazon Botanicals manufactures a new herbal supplement from the Jergon sacha plant. Dr. Roberto Inchuastegui Gonzales, who was the president of the Committee of AIDS and Transmissible Diseases at the Peruvian Institute of Social Security in Iquitos, Peru was having remarkable results in treating AIDS patients with extracts of Jergon sacha. - January 12, 2007 - Amazon Botanicals

SlowPcDoctor.com - You No Longer Have to Call a Technician When Your Computer is Dying a Slow Death

SlowPcDoctor.com takes the mystery out of tuning up your computer by yourself. A Complete "do it yourself" guide takes you through it step by step. They also have in home service in certain regions. - January 12, 2007 - SlowPcDoctor.com

A New Ray of Light in Immune Support

Solgar Vitamin & Herb is proud to announce the launch of Vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol). Important new studies highlight the importance of vitamin D, not only in its traditional role in bone support, but also in other areas including immune and mental health. Due to increased awareness about... - January 12, 2007 - Solgar Vitamin & Herb

Yolato Opened Its First Manhattan Location

Yolato, the Yogurt Gelato company, opened its first NYC Location in the West Village. - January 11, 2007 - Yolato

Biting Not Allowed

Children and pets share something more than the forbidden “No Biting” rule. They both can have poor oral hygiene and they both share February as their special Dental Health Month. - January 11, 2007 - Dental Air Force

Choose Your Own Adventure® Launches iPod Download

Beware; Choose Your Own Adventure #1 - The Abominable Snowman is no ordinary audiobook. - January 11, 2007 - Choose Your Own Adventure

New Concrete Mixer Launched in South Africa

Goscor Engines launched a 350 Litre IBA Bragagnolo concrete mixer, in Southern Africa this week. Goscor Engines division, as part of the ongoing strategy to provide more than just engines, pumps and generators to the industrial market, decided to expand their product range and entered into the... - January 11, 2007 - Goscor Power Products

Tea Website Offers an Easy, Alternative Way to Get Healthy & Fulfill those New Year Resolutions

Two weeks into the New Year and your resolve is already slipping away? Time to ditch all those hopeful New Year resolutions to get fit and lose weight? Do not lose heart, help is at hand from China’s Secret teas. - January 11, 2007 - China's Secret Ltd

Press Releases 40,151 - 40,200 of 41,663