Gerard Debreu, who died on December 31 aged 83, won the 1983 Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences for his theoretical work on the price mechanism.

A French-born Professor of Economics at the University of California at Berkeley, Debreu began his research career in the immediate post-war years when economic theory was entering a phase of intense mathematicisation. Debreu asked many questions about, and suggested many of the solutions to, issues raised by the general equilibrium theory posed by Leon Walras in the 19th century (and before him in a different form by Adam Smith).

In The Theory of Value: An axiomatic analysis of economic equilibrium, published in 1959, Debreu set out a rigorous mathematical approach to how prices function to balance supply and demand. Before Theory of Value, the presumption that a market in which goods are traded between producers and consumers will settle down to a stable equilibrium of prices and quantities had to be taken on trust. Debreu worked out mathematically conditions under which such a perfect market could exist.

Debreu, unusually for a Nobel-prizewinner, confined his researches to abstract theory. It was left to others to apply his theories to such problems as the analysis of business cycles, quantifying the economic costs of traffic congestion or calculating the effect of tax changes.

At 102 pages, and studded with mathematical symbols, Debreu's Theory Of Value was notable for being one of the shortest great works in economics - and one of the most difficult. Geoffrey (now Lord) Howe is said to have remarked that it was to economics what Finnegans Wake was to literature. Nevertheless it is still regarded as a classic in its field.

Gerard Debreu was born in Calais on July 4 1921. His father was a partner in a family lace-making business - a traditional industry in the city. Gerard was educated at the College of the City of Calais and hoped to go on to one of the scientific grandes écoles in Paris, but the outbreak of war made it impossible, and he studied Mathematics at Ambert and then Grenoble. He eventually entered the École Normale Supérieure in 1941, studying under Henri Cartan and coming under the influence of the Bourbaki school of mathematics. D-day intervened before his final exams and he immediately enlisted in the French Army, serving in the occupation forces in Germany until the war ended.

By the time he finally graduated, Debreu had become interested in economics, an interest that became a passion after he read Maurice Allais's A La Recherche d'une Discipline Économique (1943), a reformulation of the mathematical theory of general equilibrium founded by Leon Walras in 1874-77.

Changing his field, Debreu found a post as a research assistant at the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique in Paris and, in 1949, travelled on a Rockefeller fellowship to America.

Later the same year he took a position as a research associate with the Chicago-based Cowles Commission for Research in Economics where, over the next 11 years, he became known as one of the Commission's most prominent and active researchers.

In 1955, the Commission moved from Chicago to Yale, where Debreu became an Associate Professor of Economics. In 1962, he accepted an appointment as Professor of Economics (and later Mathematics) at the University of California at Berkeley, where he remained until his retirement.

Though Debreu took American citizenship in 1975, he retained many European habits. A formal but friendly man, he would eat lunch at home every day and had an abiding passion for Proust. He was known for jotting mathematical formulae in the upper left hand corner of a blackboard and working his way down, covering the remaining space with symbols.