If you are interested in a gourmet trip to Italy, then Piedmont is the best place to go. Thanks to small family businesses, organic farming is particularly common, and Piedmontese cattle feed in the high valleys of the Kottian Alps. In Piedmont, the slow-food movement was born with distinguished food culture and the world’s best wines. Kilometer Zero (km 0) is a term coined in Piedmont meaning from farm to table directly.

The region of the Langhe around Alba is known and is home to the famous Barolo wine. Barolo wines are made from Nebbiolo grapes grown around the town of Barolo. Asti is known worldwide primarily for its sparkling wine, the Asti Spumante. Did you know that Turin was the birthplace of chocolate and Nutella and that the famous Piedmont cherry and fresh Carmagnola Mint in the Tic-Tac mint, as well as the children’s surprise eggs, started their triumphal march around the world from here where the Ferrero company is? The Baci di Dama, small hemispheres made from dark biscuits filled with chocolate, come from Alessandria in Piedmont.

The area around Vercelli is the largest European rice-growing area. Yes, we grow rice in Italy! Piedmont is a gourmet region, from here come truffles and chestnuts (Cuneo), cheeses like Toma and Castelmagno, but simple traditional dishes are also specialties of the region. We organize culinary tours with wine tastings and visits to cheese producers for private groups. Come to Piedmont if you are interested in supporting small local businesses, stay in family hotels, discover and appreciate the beautiful nature, and sample the wonderful products the local farmers produce.

The valleys and the elevations of Piedmont still maintain original nature, fertile soils, and fascinating colors. An ideal area for active holidays, combined with natural and tasty food, the best wines in Italy, and cultural treasures, which testify to the unmistakable tradition and high craftsmanship of the region. On the hiking trails in the Alps as well as in the valleys with an Occitan tradition (Valle del Po, Valle Maira, Valle Varaita, Valle Stura, Valle di Susa) you rarely meet foreign tourists.

For hikers, Piedmont offers a true paradise for hiking tours. The most beautiful long-distance hiking trail is the Grande Traversata Delle Alpi. This trail through the Alps can be mastered in about 50 days. The hiking trail begins in the Valais in Switzerland, goes partly through French territory and ends on the Ligurian coast with a jump into the sea.

We found wonderful hiking routes in Piedmont for you to explore. Please follow the links below for more details.

The Aosta Valley (Valle d’Aosta) bordering France and Switzerland is an autonomous region of Italy. People speak the local language Valdôtain. The sparsely populated valley is peppered with old castles.

Piedmont offers beautiful landscapes that are interesting for hikers and bicycle tours. Piedmont strives to provide authentic tourist experiences that celebrate and conserve its heritage and nature. Excellent wines, truffles, lovely family restaurants, and farmstays are a magnet for eco tourism. We criss-crossed this region on foot and bicycle for many years. We love to share our passion for the environment and culture with you.

Let us help you to arrange a vacation to the best places to visit in Piedmont around any of the landscapes listed below. These are all worth a long weekend or a week of touring.

Kottian Alps the West

Lake Maggiore in the East

Valsesia in the North

The Langhe area

Hilly landscape around Tortona

The Holy Mountains (Sacri Monti)