Alberto Gerbo is an Italian footballer who plays as a midfielder for Serie B club Juve Stabia.

Alberto Gerbo was born on November 9, 1989, in Valenza, Piedmont, Italy. His birth geographical coordinates are 45° 0’ 45” North latitude and 8° 38’ 38” East longitude, with an altitude of 125 meters above sea level. Alberto Gerbo is currently 34 years old.

Astrologically, Alberto Gerbo falls under the Sun sign of Scorpio, with Capricorn as his Ascendant, Pisces as his Moon sign, and Scorpio as his Black Moon Lilith sign.

Planets

Planets represent different aspects of personality, life themes, and energies within a birth chart, influencing individual characteristics, motivations, and experiences.

Planets in Signs

Planets in a zodiac sign denote how the energies and qualities associated with those planets express themselves within the context of the themes and attributes of that particular zodiac sign.

Sun Scorpio Moon Pisces Mercury Scorpio Venus Capricorn Mars Scorpio Jupiter Cancer Saturn Capricorn Uranus Capricorn Neptune Capricorn Pluto Scorpio Ceres Cancer Chiron Cancer Eros Sagittarius Hygiea Capricorn Juno Libra Pallas Pisces Vesta Capricorn Ascendant Capricorn Black Moon Lilith Scorpio Midheaven Scorpio North Node Aquarius South Node Leo Part of Fortune Taurus Vertex Leo

Sunin Scorpio17° 1’ 56”

The Sun in Scorpio in the Natal Chart makes you enigmatic and sexually expressive. You are empowered and self-confident. You seek unique ways to express […] Read more »

Moonin Pisces24° 2’ 57”

The Moon in Pisces in the Natal Chart makes you expressive and inspiring. You are sensitive and understand other people’s needs. You are gentle and […] Read more »

Mercuryin Scorpio16° 14’ 15”

Mercury in Scorpio in the Natal Chart makes you intense and focused. You are thoughtful and communicate your strategic ideas. You are determined to succeed […] Read more »

Venusin Capricorn4° 5’ 1”

Capricorn Venus in the Natal Chart makes you calm and stoic in relationships. You value stability and crave security in romance. You are helpful and […] Read more »

Marsin Scorpio3° 31’ 6”

Scorpio Mars in the Natal Chart makes you intense and mysterious. You have a probing nature and an insatiable appetite for knowledge. You seek hidden […] Read more »

Jupiterin Cancer10° 39’ 21”

Cancer Jupiter in the Natal Chart makes you an opinionated advocate for your loved ones. You nurture ideas and explore your philosophical beliefs about security, […] Read more »

Saturnin Capricorn10° 0’ 55”

Capricorn Saturn in the Natal Chart indicates you are part of a generation responsible for fulfilling your mission to society. You are consistent and find […] Read more »

Uranusin Capricorn2° 49’ 33”

Capricorn Uranus in the Natal Chart is a generational placement indicating you are part of a cohort born with a deep desire for change and […] Read more »

Neptunein Capricorn10° 15’ 48”

Capricorn Neptune in the Natal Chart indicates a desire for security and emotional validation. You are part of a group that desires emotional connection and […] Read more »

Plutoin Scorpio15° 11’ 46”

Scorpio Pluto in the Natal Chart indicates a generation with an intense desire for truth and wisdom. You delve deep to uncover hidden truths and […] Read more »

Ceresin Cancer5° 5’ 19”

Ceres in Cancer in the Natal Chart brings love and compassion to your relationships. Your generation helps others feel settled and can bring healing and […] Read more »

Chironin Cancer16° 27’ 49”

The Chiron in Cancer generation has a core wound related to feeling rejected by family. You struggle with feeling like you don’t belong and have […] Read more »

Erosin Sagittarius20° 56’ 49”

Eros in Sagittarius in the Natal Chart indicates a daring and bold approach to intimacy. You seek a partner who shares your carefree attitude toward […] Read more »

Hygieain Capricorn4° 47’ 51”

Hygiea in Capricorn in the Natal Chart indicates an ideal placement for productivity and efficiency. You are eager to stick with healthy routines and can […] Read more »

Junoin Libra27° 12’ 56”

Juno in Libra in the Natal Chart is an ideal placement for romance and marriage. You are eager to settle down with your partner and […] Read more »

Pallasin Pisces28° 7’ 12”

Pallas in Pisces in the Natal Chart makes you a generous and compassionate leader. You mentor others and can help create a path to success. […] Read more »

Vestain Capricorn23° 3’ 39”

Capricorn Vesta in the Natal Chart makes you predictable and consistent. You are old-fashioned and look to the past for comfort and fulfillment. Work brings […] Read more »

Ascendantin Capricorn16° 27’ 48”

The Capricorn Ascendant in the Natal Chart makes you responsible. You have the appearance of someone reliable and mature. Others look to you for guidance […] Read more »

Black Moon Lilithin Scorpio0° 31’ 28”

Scorpio Black Moon Lilith in the Natal Chart is passionate about bringing transformation and empowerment. You are hedonistic and seek sexual expression and freedom. You […] Read more »

Midheavenin Scorpio14° 42’ 21”

Scorpio Midheaven in the Natal Chart is an ideal placement for uncanny wit and instincts that help you thrive in your career. You rise to […] Read more »

North Nodein Aquarius21° 14’ 35”

Aquarius North Node in the Natal Chart makes you rebellious. You break from tradition, and your destiny involves leading others in grassroots campaigns. You are […] Read more »

South Nodein Leo21° 14’ 35”

Leo South Node in the Natal Chart makes you born with passion and desire to succeed. You are confident in your abilities and have a […] Read more »

Part of Fortunein Taurus23° 28’ 48”

Taurus Part of Fortune in the Natal Chart makes you genuine and trusting. You are transparent and can be reliable and patient. You are grounded […] Read more »

Vertexin Leo23° 52’ 44”

Leo Vertex in the Natal Chart makes you open to exploring your full potential. You are purposeful and master your creative gifts. You are talented […] Read more »

Planets in Elements

Planets in elements denote how the fundamental energies and qualities associated with those planets interact with the elemental nature of the signs they inhabit, shaping an individual’s overall temperament and approach to life.

Water Element

Astrologers and other occultists study the water element to understand emotional healing. This element relates to love and compassion. Numerous planets in water signs in […] Read more »

Earth Element

The earth element in astrology is associated with practicality and grounding. This element is associated with career and wealth. Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn are signs […] Read more »

Fire Element

The fire element in astrology is associated with passion and motivation. This element brings creativity and intensifies planets and natal houses. Your competitive nature comes […] Read more »

Air Element

The air element in astrology corresponds to three signs; Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius. This element is associated with new insights and perspectives. The air element […] Read more »

Planets in Qualities

Planets in qualities signify how the inherent attributes and tendencies of those planets align with the modalities of the signs they occupy, influencing an individual’s style of action, decision-making, and engagement with the world.

Cardinal Quality

The Cardinal quality in astrology is associated with new seasons and initiative. Cardinal signs mark the equinoxes and solstices. The Cardinal modality represents the extremes […] Read more »

Fixed Quality

The second Quality in astrology is the Fixed modality. Fixed Signs follow the Cardinal Signs, bringing strength and endurance. These signs build upon the foundation […] Read more »

Mutable Quality

The third Quality astrological signs are grouped into is mutable. Mutable Signs come at the end of a season. Mutable Signs are associated with flexibility […] Read more »

Planets in Houses

Planets in a zodiac house signify where in life’s areas and experiences the energies and influences of those planets are predominantly focused and expressed.

Sun Tenth House Moon Second House Mercury Tenth House Venus Twelfth House Mars Ninth House Jupiter Sixth House Saturn Twelfth House Uranus Twelfth House Neptune Twelfth House Pluto Tenth House Ceres Sixth House Chiron Seventh House Eros Eleventh House Hygiea Twelfth House Juno Ninth House Pallas Second House Vesta First House Black Moon Lilith Ninth House North Node First House South Node Seventh House Part of Fortune Fourth House Vertex Seventh House

Aspects

Aspects reveal the dynamic relationships and interactions between planets within a birth chart, influencing the way their energies combine and manifest in an individual’s life experiences and personality traits.

Within this birth chart, there are 24 major aspects, alongside 16 minor aspects, as well as 9 extra aspects.

Major Aspects

Major aspects highlight significant connections between planets, providing insights into key dynamics, challenges, and potentials shaping an individual’s life journey and psychological makeup.

Jupiter Opposite Neptune Saturn Conjunct Neptune Sun Conjunct Mercury Mercury Conjunct Pluto Venus Sextile Mars Venus Conjunct Uranus Mars Sextile Uranus Jupiter Opposite Saturn Sun Conjunct Pluto Jupiter Trine Pluto Saturn Sextile Pluto Neptune Sextile Pluto Sun Trine Jupiter Mercury Trine Jupiter Mercury Sextile Neptune Venus Conjunct Saturn Venus Conjunct Neptune Sun Trine Moon Venus Opposite Jupiter Mars Trine Jupiter Saturn Conjunct Uranus Uranus Conjunct Neptune Moon Trine Mercury Jupiter Opposite Uranus

Explore detailed articles on the major aspects in this birth chart, gaining deeper insights into this cosmic identity. Dive into each aspect and uncover how it shapes Alberto Gerbo’s life journey.

Jupiter Opposite Neptuneorb: 0°

Jupiter opposite Neptune in a chart typically indicates that a person is curious and imaginative. They constantly question the world around them, but they tend […] Read more »

Saturn Conjunct Neptuneorb: 0°

Saturn conjunct Neptune in a chart can create the potential for both stability and instability. Someone with this aspect in their chart may lean more […] Read more »

Sun Conjunct Mercuryorb: 1°

Sun conjunct Mercury in the Natal Chart can make you bright, playful, and talkative. Your intellectual gifts are among your best characteristics. You can be […] Read more »

Mercury Conjunct Plutoorb: 1°

Mercury conjunct Pluto in the Natal Chart makes you intense and magnetically charming. Your words have a powerful impact, and you can be seductive and […] Read more »

Venus Sextile Marsorb: 1°

Venus sextile Mars in a chart typically indicates that a person is highly social and energetic. They love being around other people, gaining new experiences, […] Read more »

Venus Conjunct Uranusorb: 1°

Venus conjunct Uranus in a Natal Chart makes you erratic in love. You are enamored with people from a distance but have difficulty sustaining intimate […] Read more »

Mars Sextile Uranusorb: 1°

Mars sextile Uranus in a chart creates a lot of excitement! Anyone with this aspect in their chart may be adventurous and free-spirited. They are […] Read more »

Jupiter Opposite Saturnorb: 1°

Jupiter opposite Saturn in a chart typically creates tension within a person. One side of them might be enthusiastic and adventurous, while the other side […] Read more »

Sun Conjunct Plutoorb: 2°

The Sun conjunct Pluto in your Natal Chart can make you powerful and authoritative. You can be a natural leader who uses your penetrating and […] Read more »

Sun Trine Jupiterorb: 6°

The Sun trine Jupiter in a Natal Chart makes you creative, gifted, and inspiring. You can be adventurous and love exploring new things. You push […] Read more »

Mercury Trine Jupiterorb: 6°

Mercury trine Jupiter in a chart typically indicates that a person has a positive view of life but is also intelligent and grounded enough not […] Read more »

Mercury Sextile Neptuneorb: 6°

Mercury sextile Neptune in a chart typically indicates that a person has high intuition and perception. They may seem psychic at times, though much of […] Read more »

Venus Conjunct Saturnorb: 6°

Venus conjunct Saturn in a Natal Chart makes you sincere and authentic. You fall in love slowly and can be cautious in relationships. You have […] Read more »

Venus Conjunct Neptuneorb: 6°

Venus conjunct Neptune in the Natal Chart makes you sensitive and romantic. You are empathetic and loving, wearing your heart on your sleeve and making […] Read more »

Sun Trine Moonorb: 7°

The Sun trine Moon in the Natal Chart helps you relate to your family without being stifled by your home life. You may have a […] Read more »

Venus Opposite Jupiterorb: 7°

Venus opposite Jupiter in a chart typically indicates a person is charming and social. They are likely popular and have no issue meeting new people. […] Read more »

Saturn Conjunct Uranusorb: 7°

Saturn conjunct Uranus in a chart can make a person seem highly energetic. They will have a side of them that is practical and grounded […] Read more »

Uranus Conjunct Neptuneorb: 7°

Uranus conjunct Neptune in a chart typically indicates that a person has a connection to spirituality, but that connection is unconventional and not what you’d […] Read more »

Moon Trine Mercuryorb: 8°

When the Moon trines Mercury, there is a strong connection between the mind and the heart. It is not difficult for a person with this […] Read more »

Jupiter Opposite Uranusorb: 8°

Jupiter opposite Uranus in a chart can bring intelligence, expression, and an innovative mind. This opposition pushes boundaries and limitations, though. The negative side of […] Read more »

Minor Aspects

Minor aspects represent subtler connections between planets, offering additional nuances and layers of interpretation to understand more detailed influences on an individual’s personality and experiences.

Moon Quincunx Vertex Mercury Trine Chiron Mercury Sextile Ascendant Pluto Conjunct Midheaven Sun Trine Chiron Sun Sextile Ascendant Moon Sextile Vesta Moon Sextile Part of Fortune Venus Opposite Ceres Venus Conjunct Hygiea Mars Sextile Hygiea Pluto Trine Chiron Pluto Sextile Ascendant Mercury Conjunct Midheaven Mars Trine Ceres Uranus Conjunct Hygiea

Discover additional layers of meaning with this collection of articles on the minor aspects found in Alberto Gerbo’s birth chart. Delve deeper into these cosmic nuances to gain a richer understanding of this astrological profile.

Moon Quincunx Vertexorb: 0°

The Moon quincunx Vertex in a chart indicates that the Vertex’s intense, fated energy is out of alignment with the sensitivity and security of the […] Read more »

Pluto Conjunct Midheavenorb: 0°

Pluto conjunct the Midheaven in a chart can create intense energy surrounding someone’s career, public image, and what they need to feel successful. People with […] Read more »

Sun Trine Chironorb: 1°

You show your wounds and vulnerability openly. You are clear about your traumas and publicly show your past wounds. You may be a guide and […] Read more »

Mercury Conjunct Midheavenorb: 2°

Mercury conjunct Midheaven in the Natal Chart makes you intellectual and outgoing. Your career brings opportunities to express your creativity and intelligence. You are thoughtful […] Read more »

Uranus Conjunct Hygieaorb: 2°

Uranus conjunct Hygiea in a chart has the potential to create a focus on innovation within the realm of health and wellness. Someone might experiment […] Read more »

Extra Aspects

Extra aspects, though less emphasized than major or minor aspects, contribute subtle nuances and intricacies to the overall astrological interpretation, offering additional insights into an individual’s personality traits and life experiences.

Ceres Opposite Hygiea Chiron Opposite Ascendant Eros Sextile North Node Eros Trine South Node Vesta Trine Part of Fortune Part of Fortune Square Vertex Juno Quincunx Pallas Vesta Quincunx Vertex Chiron Trine Midheaven

Explore how these extra aspects contribute to the intricate tapestry of Alberto Gerbo’s life path through subtler influences. Dive into each extra aspect and uncover the hidden gems that shape a unique cosmic identity.

Vesta Trine Part of Fortuneorb: 0°

Vesta trine the Part of Fortune in the Natal Chart makes you eager to explore your mission. Your higher purpose relates to your favorite activities. […] Read more »

Part of Fortune Square Vertexorb: 0°

The Part of Fortune square of the Vertex in the Natal Chart makes you anxious about your destiny. You are reluctant to challenge yourself and […] Read more »

Houses

A house starting in a zodiac sign indicates the area of life where the qualities and themes of that sign are particularly emphasized and influential within an individual’s birth chart.