BRITS can book themselves a unique night away, provided they're willing bring their own bedding.

There are plenty of quirky stays available throughout the UK, including in its smallest town.

Fordwich in Kent is home to the now disused St Mary the Virgin Church, where visitors can book a night's stay from £36.75pp.

The church offers church camping, or champing, meaning visitors can spend an evening curled up on camp beds among the pews for a unique overnight experience.

The champing website describes the Grade-I listed St Mary the Virgin as "mellow and unspoilt" with some of the church building dating back to the 12th century.

It closed for worship in 1995, but remains open to those looking for an accommodation with a twist.

It can house as many as eight campers, with the price to book the whole thing £294, or £36.75pp.

However, for smaller parties, it can cost as much as £49pp.

Kent Live said: "Church camping, also known as ‘champing’ is the best way to appreciate a building full of history and charm such as The Church of St Mary the Virgin in Fordwich.

"For £49, you will sleep among the church pews on camp beds and cushions and have the freedom to arrange everything as you want, but you will need to bring your own bedding."

The Champing website also points out some of the reasons to visit the UK's smallest town, including its pubs, its river activities and other historic buildings, including the country's smallest town hall.

They said: "Slap-bang on the River Great Stour, the truly teeny-tiny town of Fordwich still has the feel of a quaint town of centuries past, with its totally titchy Town Hall, virtually untouched since it was built in 1544.

"You can hire a canoe or paddleboard, or make like a true pilgrim and avail yourself of the victuals and ale provided by England’s smallest town’s two pubs, The George & Dragon and the award winning The Fordwich Arms."

Of the two, the Fordwich Arms is the better known, with its food earning it a Michelin star.

The restaurant serves "refined British cuisine in an oak-walled room with fireplaces, a vintage bar & a riverside terrace".

It also earned a TripAdvisor Traveller's Choice award for 2023, with an overall score of 4.5/5 from hundreds of reviews online.

One person wrote: "A laid back country pub with a lovely ambience, serving wonderful food made from the best local, seasonal produce. Definitely deserves its Michelin star."

Another said: "We were absolutely blown away by the amazing food."

A third added: "Outstanding meal. Had the Sunday tasting menu. Probably the best meal we have had in several years."

The restaurant isn't the only TripAdvisor Traveller's Choice winner in the town this year, with Canoe Wild also rating highly among visitors.

They offer canoe, kayak and Paddleboard hire, as well as courses, taster sessions and guided tours on the River Stour.

The town is also just three miles away from Canterbury, meaning there's plenty to explore nearby.

Meanwhile, this small UK town has also been named one of the prettiest.