It's Throwback Thursday! Twenty years ago this month, The Fourth Hand by John Irving was first published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Sixty years ago this month, Stranger in a Strange Land by Robert A. Heinlein was first published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Twenty years ago this month, Slammerkin by Emma Donoghue was first published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Twenty years ago this month, Year of Wonders by Geraldine Brooks was first published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Fifty years ago this month, The Day of the Jackal by Frederick Forsyth was first published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Fifty years ago this month, The Exorcist by William Peter Blatty was first published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Twenty-five years ago this month, the first Animorphs book was published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Twenty years ago this month, Dead Until Dark by Charlaine Harris was first published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Twenty years ago this month, The Shadow of the Wind by Carlos Ruiz Zafón was first published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Fifty years ago this month, The Lathe of Heaven by Ursula K. Le Guin was first published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Twenty-five years ago this month, Jeffrey Archer's The Fourth Estate was first published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Forty-five years ago this month, Anne Rice's Interview with the Vampire was first published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Forty-five years ago this month, Tom Robbins' Even Cowgirls Get the Blues was published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Forty ago this month, Raymond Carver's What We Talk About When We Talk About Love was published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Forty ago this month, Salman Rushdie's Midnight's Children was published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Twenty-five years ago this month, John Darnton's Neanderthal was published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Thirty-one years ago this month, Stephen King's complete and uncut edition of The Stand was published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Twenty-one years ago this month, Chris Ware's seminal graphic novel, Jimmy Corrigan, the Smartest Kid on Earth was published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Twenty years ago this month, 1st to Die, the first book in James Patterson's Women's Murder Club series was published.

It's Throwback Thursday! fifty years ago this month, Wallace Stegner's classic novel Angle of Repose was published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Fifteen years ago this month, Elizabeth Gilbert's Eat, Pray, Love was published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Twenty-five years ago this month, The Demon-Haunted World by Carl Sagan and Ann Druyan was published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Twenty-five years ago this month, David Foster Wallace's Infinite Jest was published.

It's Throwback Thursday! Twenty-five years ago this month, Intensity by best-selling author Dean Koontz was published.