It's nice to see all that coke hasn't fried all his brain.

Beckam and Totti are 2 different players. I'd take Totti over Beckham but Real doesn't need Totti. They have Ronaldo, Raul, ZiZi, and Figo. Beckham's part of their puzzle giving them more width. Plus people don't give Becks enough credit for his defense.

Beckham is already delivering the goods for real madrid..played 4 ,2 goals ,3 assists...

He has been more productive than raul ,figo or zidane.

By the end of the season his goals/assists tally will be well into double figures.

Add that to the fact that his workrate never drops below 100% in every game.

Old totti has never delivered anything...

a real no-mark of world football.

Hmm, winning Lo Scudetto is nothing? Also he came within 30 seconds of winning Euro 2000. That's farther than Beckham has ever gotten with England. There is no comparison, Totti can do everything Beckham can do and more. Yes that includes freekicks.

Beckham has won 6 titles, a CL, a couple of FA cups. There aren't many more decorated players in Europe's top leagues.

Beckham is an absolute work-horse as well as being a top-notch player. How many of the world's flair players do as much for the team as David Beckham, probably none. As well as this his goals and assists records for both United and England have consistently been superb over recent years. Totti may be able to do things, but he rarely plays to his ability, he just doesn't produce.

Comme, did you see Totti play last year? I don't think you did. He single handedly saved Roma from relegation last year. Without him Roma would be one of the Serie B clubs protesting right now. Beckham's accomplishments can't be compared to Totti's. It's alot easier to win things with ManU in England than it is to win things with Roma in Italy.

A coke-snorting, overweight Argentine dwarf has a go at an English player. Wow, I'm shocked at that one.

David Beckham is more of a team player, as he works hard in defensive duties and has a good 'engine'. That is needed as he is a midfielder. Totti is good at creating chances for the main striker, and is a 'number 10', i.e. a different player. Totti is a bit of a show pony, and is over-hyped because he's Italian and a bit of a pin up. Dave is in a similar position in that sense.

I'd rather have Dave than Totti in Blackburn's team because he is a bit a more robust for the Premiership. Totti strikes me as a bit lacking in the 'steel' department. And we have Matt Jansen, who I'm perfectly happy with.

Maradona says a lot of stupid things every day, and really, even to compare Totti to Beckham is foolish. Both players are dangerous on free kicks (Totti, IMHO, a little more so), but Totti is more of a finisher while Becks role is to create goal-scoring opportunities for the forwards on his team.

Totti is one of the top players in the world. Second in his position to only Zidane. He scored something like 16 goals last season in Serie A, 3 in Europe and single handedly won games versus Real Madrid and Valencia for Roma. Totti rarely, if ever had a truely bad game last season because even at Roma's worst he would always be there to carry them.

He is a player that wins games at will, the problem being that he is a bit lazy and sometimes cocky.

Beckham's great, truely, but there is no question who is a better player. Totti.

Did I make the remark that he was better ?. No, I just said I'm happy with him. He nearly died before the last world cup, after having a season that could (and probably should) have been in the England WC squad. After the motorbike accident that left him in a coma for a week, he has come back to something like his old self. This time last season, he could barely co-ordinate himself to kick a ball. If that doesn't highlight determination and toughness show me a player that does.

Yep, it is that same fat drug inducing mentally deficient ex-footballer with no class who scored the greatest goal in World Cup history against you poodles.

greatest goal in world cup history my A$$. probably the most overrated goal in wc history and i would also rank owens goal as one of the most overrated along with maradonas just to be fair.

yeah i dont think it was that hard to run past the whole england team after you finish demoralizing them by scoring with your F'cking hand and the ref not saying anything. yep i'd think the England squad would be pretty demoralized and an u-15 girls team could probably have waltzed through them after that. so it don't really mean $hit.

worst.comeback.ever.

You cant even compare the two players. They are both quality players in their own positions- its always difficult to compare to players who dont play the same way.

Anyway i would be surprised if Maradona even knows who Totti is! i would be surprised if he even knew who he is!

I have no respect for the guy and take nothing serious he says.

The guys a prat!

Given that that individual scored the greatest goal in WC history against the country that you call your own, I can very well understand your hapless ranting.