Roma and Italy legend Francesco Totti visited Carlo Ancelotti’s Real Madrid at the Estadio Bernabeu on Saturday: ‘They are my second team.’

The ex-Giallorossi striker was invited by Ancelotti to the Spanish Capital and showed up at the Bernabeu on Saturday witnessing a 2-0 win from the Merengues.

Totti posed with a few Real Madrid stars, including Karim Benzema, who posted the picture on Instagram.

“It was a beautiful feeling. This is the first time I’ve been to a Real Madrid game in the stands, as I’ve always been on the opposing side as a player. Real Madrid are a massive club,” Totti told Madrid’s official website.

“Ancelotti and I have a fantastic relationship. He’s a genuine, pure person who transmits such positivity. He gave me the chance to come and see Real Madrid City and here I am. After Roma, Real Madrid is my second team and the club I’ve always supported and admired.”

Visualizza questo post su Instagram

Un post condiviso da Karim Benzema (@karimbenzema)

Totti was given a standing ovation the last time he played at the Bernabeu for Roma: “It was a feeling I’ll keep with me forever. It’s a unique emotion to be applauded by a stadium like the Bernabéu. It was unbelievable. The Bernabéu is a place that inspires passion and makes you want to play. Coming here as an opponent was incredibly stimulating,” he said.

Totti also has a solid bond with Luka Modric, who has often said the Roma legend is one of his idols: “We have a special relationship. We admire each other greatly. I have the pleasure of knowing him personally and he’s an extraordinary player and person. He’s such a genuine, honest guy.”

The Merengues will meet Manchester City in the Champions League semis: “It’s a final in the semi-final. They are two huge teams and two great clubs. We’ll be seeing 50 world-class players. Anything can happen. I’ll be backing Real Madrid and I hope they make the final,” concluded Totti.

The 2006 World Cup winner also met his ex-teammate Antonio Rudiger, who seemed delighted to reunite with his former Roma captain.

The ex-Chelsea posed with Totti and wrote on Instagram in Italian: ‘C’è solo un capitano’, ‘There is only one capitan’ as ultras used to sing back in the days.