Former Thunder players on new teams

Chucky Atkins, G, Phoenix Suns

Atkins was acquired by the Thunder in January 2009 in a trade with the Nuggets. The 12-year veteran is fighting for a roster spot in Phoenix.

Shaun Livingston, G, Charlotte Bobcats

Livingston, who was wavied by the Thunder in December last season, finished the year strong with the Washington Wizards before signing a two-year deal with Charlotte in the offseason. Livingston hasn't played yet in the preseason because of soreness in his surgically repaired left knee. Livingston is expected to back up D.J. Augustin at point guard.

Johan Petro, C, New Jersey Nets

Petro was an original member of the Oklahoma City Thunder in the 2008-09 season, but was traded in January 2009 to Denver for Chucky Atkins. Petro signed a three-year deal with New Jersey in the offseason and will back up Brook Lopez.

Joe Smith, F, New Jersey Nets

Smith, a career journeyman entering his 16th NBA season, was traded to Oklahoma City before the Thunder's inaugural season in August 2008. OKC released him in March 2009. Smith finished that year with the Cavaliers and spent all of last season with the Atlanta Hawks.

Etan Thomas, C, Atlanta Hawks

Thomas, who fell out of the Thunder's rotation early last season with the emergence of Serge Ibaka, signed as a free agent with Atlanta on Sept. 2. It's uncertain if he'll be a regular in the Hawks' rotation with centers Al Horford and Zaza Pachulia above him on the depth chart.

Earl Watson, PG, Utah Jazz

Watson started the Thunder's inaugural season as the starting point guard but was quicky supplanted by Russell Westbrook. He spent last season with the Indiana Pacers, starting 52 games. Watson will back up All-Star Deron Williams.

Kyle Weaver, G, Chicago Bulls

Weaver had been with the Thunder since they got to Oklahoma City, but now he's on the Bulls' training camp roster.

Damien Wilkins, G, Memphis Grizzlies

Wilkins, on the Thunder roster during the 2008-09 season, appeared in 80 games for Minnesota last season. He was added to Memphis' training camp roster on Sept. 28 and is one of five players fighting for the Grizzlies' 15th and final roster spot.