ROCKAWAY TOWNSHIP -- Lt. Col. Charles H. Koehler will succeed Lt. Col. John P. Stack as garrison commander at Picatinny Arsenal, the Army’s sprawling research facility in Rockaway Township.

Stack, who has been the garrison’s commander for the past three years, will be honored tomorrow at a change-of-command ceremony. His replacement, Koehler, is currently the executive officer for the Defense Logistics Agency in Fort Belvoir, Va.

Today, Stack said upgrading the base’s facilities and reaching out to surrounding communities were two of his biggest accomplishments.

Under his leadership, the Picatinny garrison constructed a new firehouse and two new childcare facilities as well as renovating the base’s rod-and-gun facility and Cannon Gate conference center.

"One of the most important things we’ve done is to make improvements to our infrastructure, facilities and fixing up the roads," said Stack.

The overall commanding officer at the arsenal is Col. Jonathan Maddux, who assumed command in September.

Stack also played an important role in establishing relationships with Morris County municipalities, agencies and service organizations and made improvements to the installation’s security and anti-terrorism presence.

"We put a lot of effort into reaching out to the community, veterans groups, the Chamber of Commerce, to better support our veterans and military families in the area," said Stack.

A native of Union City and a Rutgers University graduate, Stack is headed to Pakistan, where he will attend the National Defense University in Islamabad. He will remain abroad on assignment for two years.

"I was supposed to be here two years and I extended it a third year to get more accomplished," said Stack, "It’s a logical time to move on and to progress to the next level in the army structure."

Picatinny Arsenal is a 6,400-acre American military research and manufacturing facility which is the headquarters for the United States Army Armament Research, Development and Engineering Center.

The arsenal serves as a proving range and research and development site for munitions and weapons for the military.