Mark Fitzwilliam Darcy, Q.C. is one of the main characters from the Bridget Jones' Diary book and film series.

Biography[]

Early Life[]

Mark Darcy was born to an upper-class family in Grafton Underwood, England to Malcolm and Geraldine Darcy. This is inferred when Mark states that five generations of his family have studied at Eton, a British private school. His father was an admiral in the Royal Navy as implied by "Admiral Darcy". He grew up in the same neighbourhood as Bridget and is four years older than her. Their parents are friends and neighbours as well as Mark's aunt, Una Alconbury, being close friends with Pamela Jones.

Later life[]

Mark is a human-rights barrister. He received his degree at Cambridge, where he met his ex-best friend, Daniel Cleaver. In the first book, his law partner is Natasha (who he eventually marries in the 2016 book Bridget Jones: the Baby Diaries) and he is divorced from his first wife after walking in on her having an affair with Daniel only a week after the wedding.

Bridget becomes reacquainted with him during the annual Turkey-Curry Buffet, hosted by her mum. A series of events similar to Pride and Prejudice ensue which lead up to the two getting together.

"I like you, very much... No, I like you very much, just as you are." -Mark Darcy Bridget Jones Diary

Bridget Jones: the Edge of Reason takes place during the beginning of their relationship. More events happen that lead to him proposing to Bridget in a characteristically Bridget Jones way in the film. However, in the book, it is not said that they got married but only implied later on in their lives.

The movies and the book split here leaving two ways his life goes.

The Movie Ending - assuming all the events from Bridget Jones Baby happen before the events of Bridget Jones: Mad About the Boy happen, this is what happens. Mark and Bridget initially break up because Daniel tried to take advantage of a drunk Bridget during their engagement party. This event causes Mark to break off the engagement weeks later and leads to him marrying Natasha (book)/Camilla (movie). After the movie/book events, Mark Darcy is found out to be the father of Bridget's baby instead of Jack Qwant (or Daniel Cleaver, if you only read the book BJB). Bridget and Mark get married, going on to raise their son William "Billy".