Consciences are personal moral compasses that help a person tell right from wrong, but in A Man For All Seasons, private moral codes become public spectacles. King Henry’s guilty conscience over his (potentially illegitimate) first marriage causes him to demand that the public, and Thomas More, comfort him and assuage his guilt. More’s conscience, which acts as a religious compass, steers him towards his eventual death, because he cannot go against his deeply help convictions, even if doing so would calm the King and save More’s life. Conscience is linked, then, to personal integrity. More, who trusts his conscience, has great personal integrity, while Cromwell, who is more self-serving and has less personal integrity, distrusts conscience. Cromwell at one point argues that he often hears criminals talk about their consciences, suggesting that Cromwell associates any reference to personal conscience with personal guilt.

Thomas More is guided by his conscience. He is a man of great integrity, and he acts in a manner that he believes is right and just, even in the face of opposition from the King himself. More’s conscience is more important to him than his reputation, material wealth, and even his personal safety, because his conscience is linked to his religion, and disobeying his conscience would be, for More, like disobeying God. During his trial, More argues “In matters of conscience, the loyal subject is more bounden to be loyal to his conscience than to any other thing.” Here, More is arguing that loyalty to his conscience is more important than loyalty to the King.

Further, More believes that public officials can and should be guided by their consciences. He states “I believe, when statesmen forsake their own private conscience for the sake of their public duties…they lead their country by a short route to chaos.” He sees a conscience as something solid and moral, a compass strong enough to guide a ruler in governing his country. When More refers to “public duties” he doesn’t mean the wellbeing of the people, but instead public reputation. Throughout the play More stands by his assertion that staying true to one’s own values is more important than giving in to public pressure.

More also notes that everyone has their own personal conscience, and that what may seem moral or right to one person will not necessarily seem so to another. When Norfolk pressures More to sign the act, he reasons that More should see the other people who have already signed it and “come with us, for fellowship.” More counters that “when we stand before God” Norfolk will be “sent to Paradise for doing according to your conscience, and I am damned for not doing according to mine.” What Norfolk did doesn’t damn him, according to More, as long as his conscience allowed him to sign the act. But More’s conscience will not allow him to sign it, and therefore he will not.

Henry’s conscience, and the consciences of the people of England, are troubled by Henry’s second marriage to Anne Boleyn. Although the King and Parliament have rewritten the laws of the land and the church, lingering guilt over his first marriage and divorce weigh on Henry’s mind. Bolt notes in the prologue that Henry’s first marriage “added a bad conscience,” because it was forbidden by the Bible to marry one’s brother’s widow. The King’s desire to have More acknowledge the nullification of his marriage, then, seems to be related to his need for a clean conscience. Cromwell later states, “The King’s a man of conscience and he wants either Sir Thomas More to bless his marriage or Sir Thomas More destroyed.” This doesn’t seem much like the traditional conscience that helps a person tell right from wrong. Instead, the King’s conscience here is looking for validation. He wants More to agree with him that his conscience should be clear, which will help make it so. Cromwell and Henry are interested in their own definition of conscience. In the same scene, Cromwell uses the circular logic that “If the King destroys a man, that’s proof to the King that it must have been a bad man, the kind of man a man of conscience ought to destroy—and of course a bad man’s blessing’s not worth having.” As opposed to More, who lets his conscience guide him towards what he feels is right, Cromwell and the King use conscience as a convenient way to justify their behavior.

Thomas More’s commitment to his conscience inspires all of his actions throughout the play. In an effort to keep his conscience clean, and to adhere to his strict religious beliefs, More tries to stay true to himself in the face of external pressures. Similarly, many of King Henry’s actions are motivated by his attempts to clear his guilty conscience—he worries that his marriage to Catherine is illegitimate, and that he is sinning by remaining her husband. The King persecutes More so aggressively because he wants More’s blessing, a blessing that will clear his conscience and potentially save his soul. However, the King’s conscience is also tied to public opinion—he does not want to be seen as living in sin, and a pure conscience will lead to higher popularity among his subjects. In contrast, More’s reputation is secondary to his conscience. He doesn’t care what people think of him as long as he knows he is following his heart.