Netflix fans have hailed Liam Neeson's 'amazing' new thriller and consider it his 'best film since Taken'.

Directed by Robert Lorenz, In the Land of Saints and Sinners—which premiered at the Venice Film Festival in September 2023—was added to Netflix on Friday.

The Taken star, 71, played the newly retired assassin who finds himself drawn into a lethal game of cat and mouse with a trio of vengeful terrorists.

The film unfolds in Ireland in the 1970s, with Liam as Finbar Murphy, living in Donegal and shooting the breeze with the local police officer (Ciarán Hinds).

And one day, he feels a need for redemption - perhaps he would have took up gardening.

But, fate has something more suited to his unique set of skills when a vicious group of terrorists arrive in the sleepy coastal village he calls home.

Viewers have raved about the Irish actor's newest film, claiming it is some of his best acting.

Taking X, formerly known as Twitter, fans dubbed the fim a brilliant movie and is one to watch again.

One penned: 'In the land of Saints & Sinners, brilliant movie on Netflix. Cast is top class & in my personal opinion the best film Liam Neeson has done since Taken & Batman'

'In The Land Of Saints & Sinners: 5 Stars Out Of 5!!! Neeson's Best Since Taken !!! A Truly Engaging Neo Western Irish Thriller!!!'

'Fantastic film, one to watch again.'

'Just finished Liam Neeson's In The Land of Saints & Sinners, amazing. Proud to be from Donegal'

Many fans revealed the motion picture made them proud to be from Donegal as the star-studded cast features some of the best Irish actors in the industry.

Liam was joined by former Irish Oscar nominees Kerry Condon (Doireann McCann) and Ciarán (Vincent O'Shea), as well as Irish onscreen veteran Colm Meaney (Robert McQue).

Despite the rave reviews online, the crime watch only scored 6.3/10 from 12,000 ratings on IMDB.

And it didn't see much success from the number on Rotten Tomatoes either as it was scored 83 per cent from 69 reviews on the Tomatometer.

Filming for the movie took place over two months in the villages of Glencolmcille and Kilcar, along with the fishing port of Killybegs and surrounding areas.

A number of locals were also hired as extras for the filming, which was set to be a major economic boost for the area.