Movie finder Release calendar New releases Coming soon Reviews User reviews Search

Directed by Gabriel Pascal

Caesar and Cleopatra 1945

138 MIN

Overview Releases Reviews Cast crew Movie Codes Products News Forum

Romance

History

War

Biography

Comedy

Drama

Release dateCountry UK LanguageEnglish Runtime138 minTechnical details 1.37:1

Movie plot tags

As Rome invades Egypt, Julius Caesar (Rains) stumbles across the young and unrefined princess Cleopatra (Leigh), sheltering in the Sphinx. Impressed by her spirit and intelligence, seduced by her charm he determines to make her Queen. Cleopatra learns about power and politics at the feet of a master but her downfall begins when she is seduced by Mark Antony. This witty, brilliantly designed movie features a memorable cast including Stewart Granger (The Prisoner of Zenda), Flora Robson (Wuthering Heights), Stanley Holloway (My Fair Lady) and a very young Jean Simmons (Great Expectations) as ...(more)

As Rome invades Egypt, Julius Caesar (Rains) stumbles across the young and unrefined princess Cleopatra (Leigh), sheltering in the Sphinx. Impressed by her spirit and intelligence, seduced by her charm he determines to make her Queen. Cleopatra learns about power and politics at the feet of a master but her downfall begins when she is seduced by Mark Antony. This witty, brilliantly designed movie features a memorable cast including Stewart Granger (The Prisoner of Zenda), Flora Robson (Wuthering Heights), Stanley Holloway (My Fair Lady) and a very young Jean Simmons (Great Expectations) as the harpist. (less)

Director: Gabriel Pascal

Writer: George Bernard Shaw

Starring: Claude Rains, Vivien Leigh, Stewart Granger, Flora Robson, Jean Simmons, Stanley Holloway

Producer: Gabriel Pascal

» See full cast & crew

4

fans

8

Blu-ray

collections

161

DVD

collections

1

Prime

collections

Similar titles you might also like

What is this?

Use the thumbs up and thumbs down icons to agree or disagree that the title is similar to Caesar and Cleopatra. You can also suggest completely new similar titles to Caesar and Cleopatra in the search box below.

Show more titles »« Show less titles

Similar titles suggested by members