Quiz Answer Key and Fun Facts

1. Which actress originated the role of Marissa on "AMC" in April of 2009?

Answer: Brittany Allen

Allen, born on February 5th, 1986 in Canada originated the role of Marissa Tasker on "AMC" in April of 2009. She had previously starred on the Soapnet original series, "M.V.P." She has appeared in the films, "Mayday", "The Rocker", and "Virtual Moms."

2. At what locale did we first encounter Marissa?

Answer: Massage parlor

Krystal found out about Marissa when Adam blackmailed her with the fact that she sold Marissa at birth on the black market. Krystal went to go find her and, at the time, Marissa was working as a masseuse at a massage parlor. However, this was no ordinary parlor since Marissa and Krystal wound up arrested since it was involved in prostitution.

3. Where did Marissa find out she was Babe's twin sister?

Answer: Pine Valley Cemetery

When Marissa was at Babe's gravesite, after hearing about Krystal discuss her, so she wanted to learn a little more about Babe. It was while looking at her gravesite that Marissa noticed she and Babe had the exact same date of birth. Krystal admitted to her that she sold her at birth since she could not afford to raise both her and Babe. Marissa blasted Krystal but eventually forgave her and they forged a relationship.

4. David invited Marissa to move into Wildwind, but she moved out after getting tired of David's attitude. Where did she go to live?

Answer: The yacht club

Marissa moved in to Wildwind to get to know David some more and they bonded for a while. However, David started to upset Marissa so she wanted to move out and be on her own. Instead of moving in with Krystal, Marissa decided to take a room at the yacht club.

5. Which of these was Marissa's first waitressing job in Pine Valley?

Answer: The yacht club

Marissa wanted to go to law school, at Pine Valley University, and Krystal offered to help pay her tuition. Marissa insisted that she pay for her tuition so she took a job as a waitress at the yacht club. She eventually quit her job as a waitress once she started to get more involved with JR Chandler.

6. Marissa assisted Liza while she first represented which client?

Answer: Annie Novak

Liza returned to town, in April of 2009, and she revealed that she was now a lawyer. Annie was still in legal trouble since she killed Richie but was placed at Oakhaven. There was a possibility that she would be fit to stand trial so Marissa first assisted Liza with Annie's case. Annie was also a suspect in Stuart's murder trial and Marissa helped Liza out in that regard. Eventually, Liza quit representing Annie and she represented Kendall.

7. Who performed the wedding proceedings for JR and Marissa in October of 2009?

Answer: Tad Martin

JR told Marissa that he did not want to wait any longer, since he was dying of cancer, so he proposed marriage to her. She accepted his proposal so they went to see Tad to have him officiate a quick wedding. Tad performed the ceremony and JR and Marissa became husband and wife in October of 2009.

8. What is Marissa's maiden name?

Answer: Tasker

Although this has not been mentioned much, Marissa's surname is Tasker since she was adopted by Lydia and Roy Tasker. Marissa mentioned that both of her adoptive parents had died in a car crash. Since her adoptive parents were dead, this influenced Marissa to bond with her biological mom, Krystal.

9. How is Marissa related to Leora?

Answer: She is her paternal half sister

Marissa is the biological daughter of Krystal Carey and David Hayward. Leora was the daughter of David Hayward and Anna Devane but she died in surgery. Since Marissa and Leora share the same father but have different mothers, they are paternal half sisters.

10. Marissa was the first person JR told that he had cancer.

Answer: False

JR was diagnosed with having a form of melanoma and he didn't want to tell his father and his cousin, Scott, fearing their reactions. He decided that he could confide in Tad first about his cancer so he informed him what was wrong. Marissa was the second person he told about his diagnosis. Marissa vowed to be by JR's side as he fought the cancer.

Source: Author CAGuy0206

This quiz was reviewed by FunTrivia editor Gamemaster1967 before going online.

Any errors found in FunTrivia content are routinely corrected through our feedback system.