Completing February’s trio of antiquated animated Tolkien adaptations, I have re-watched Rankin-Bass’ Return of the King (1980). It’s something. It really is. Whereas the 1977 Hobbit is good, and Ralph Bakshi’s 1978 effort evokes at least some respect… the 1980 Return of the King is a classic case of So Bad It’s Good, with all that entails.

(It makes it easier for me to write a review, I suppose. And it should be zero surprise to anyone that this particular adaptation, in contrast to Bakshi, was Made for TV. This is a bad film that knows it is bad, and doesn’t try to hide it).

There are exactly two positive things one can say about this film.

Firstly, its portrayal of Samwise Gamgee is far superior to Bakshi’s. The Rankin-Bass Sam is, well, the Sam we know and love – courageous and loyal to a fault, and not in the least like some walking mutant potato. Yes, I’m still wondering what the hell was going through Bakshi’s brain when he foisted that thing on us.

Secondly, it provides the iconic ‘Where There’s a Whip, There’s a Way’ song, which will stick in your head long after everything else about this film has been forgotten:

YouTube has a ten hour version uploaded, in case you need an extended fix. Note that slowing the video to 0.5 speed is hilarious.

(Oh, and there is a third positive thing: the Rankin-Bass Return of the King features the best cinematic portrayal of Denethor ever seen on screen. Given that the competition consists of Peter Jackson, that’s a low bar).

**

That’s the handful of positives out the way. Now the problems…

The biggest issue with this film is that it literally skips The Fellowship of the Ring, and The Two Towers (it skips the Scouring too, but I digress). We are essentially being asked to care about characters that we’ve only just met. Sure, one could have watched Bakshi, or, you know, read Tolkien’s original, but without any prior guidance, one is rather thrown in the deep-end. Actually, that rather understates things. Bakshi (who relies on the audience’s knowledge to fill in the gaps) throws you in the deep end. Rankin-Bass throws you into the Mariana Trench. We aren’t being asked to fill in the gaps, so much as to supply our own exposition and stakes, amid the action on the screen.

All the book-quotations in the world (and the film does have pretty liberal quantities of original Tolkien lines) don’t count for much when the context has not been developed. If you haven’t spent time with these characters beforehand, even a line as thrilling as “Rohan had come at last” falls flat – you might as well be watching a random YouTube clip, for all the emotional pay-off you get. Eowyn is one of the more extreme examples, as she is given zero introduction prior to facing the Witch-King, and Merry has to fill us in on who this woman is. When she defeats the foe, there’s no catharsis, because there has been no build-up. Book-readers know the stakes, and the meaning of the scene, but when watching a movie, we aren’t book-readers… we’re movie-watchers, and the story we’re seeing should stand on its own terms.

Indeed, apart from Frodo and Sam (and maybe Gandalf, who acts as narrator), we never get to feel anything for these characters, simply because we don’t know them, in a story-telling sense. Notwithstanding that the film is The Return of the King, Aragorn is a minor character with a handful of lines. Denethor is a senile lunatic. Eowyn is a woman with a sword. Faramir is only there at the end, in a blink-and-you-will-miss-it moment. Merry and Pippin are other hobbits, who have got themselves involved in the War for reasons that are not adequately explained. Gollum is a frog thing who is after the Ring. And that’s really it… well, apart from the framing narrative, where the Bard of Gondor (yes, really) is retelling events to a senile and frail Bilbo Baggins in Rivendell, on his 129th birthday.

Jumping straight into the third book also causes plot problems, because even if you consider this a sequel to Bakshi, Bakshi cuts stuff himself, and in any case only covers half The Two Towers. Here, we start off with Sam outside Cirith Ungol, trying to get in to rescue Frodo. Since we’re jumping ahead of Shelob… Sam finds the Ring, Sting, and an Elven Cloak just lying on the path. Very, very convenient. Even worse, he just happens to find the mysterious Phial of Galadriel in his pocket. Frodo later identifies it, but says he can say no more, lest it lose it power. Yes, really. Since Galadriel’s gift-giving is axed from Bakshi, and Galadriel does not appear in Rankin-Bass, they are reduced to that.

The film juxtaposes the Frodo/Sam story (to which it devotes most of its attention) against the defence of Minas Tirith. Well and good. The problem is that the timelines are mangled. The Battle of Pelennor Fields is going on during Sam’s adventures in Cirith Ungol… and it is still going on during the Mount Doom sequence. Even more bizarrely, the Mount Doom sequence starts during Pelennor Fields, and is still going in time for Aragorn and Gandalf to turn up at the Morannon.

(Speaking of the Mount Doom sequence, we see Frodo’s madness, but when he puts on the Ring… nothing happens, except that he turns invisible, and fights with Gollum. Sauron – or at least the forces of Mordor – does not actually notice that someone has claimed the Ring in the heart of his dominion).

The other big problem with the Rankin-Bass Return of the King is that it commits the opposite sin to Peter Jackson’s Hobbit trilogy. Jackson’s Hobbit takes a children’s adventure, and tries to turn it into Epic Fantasy. Rankin-Bass takes an Epic Fantasy, and makes it childish. No, I am not talking about ‘Where There’s a Whip, There’s a Way,’ which is just adorably daft, in a way that makes childishness practically transcendental. I’m talking about lines like Pippin’s infamous “It’s Denethor! He’s gone loony, I tell you!” and Gandalf’s weird aside to the audience at the end, where he suggests that they too might have hobbit ancestry.

And the animation choices. Frog Gollum kind of works in The Hobbit, but they don’t even pretend he’s a ruined hobbit here, which mutilates one of the themes. The Ringwraiths are laughable:

By contrast, the Nazgûl were one of the things Bakshi got right. I swear, there must be some sort of Rule in Tolkien adaptations: the scariness of the Nazgûl in any given production is inversely proportional to the apparent intelligence of Samwise Gamgee.

(It’s all the weirder, given that the brief shots of Rankin-Bass Sauron make the Eye of Sauron look like HAL from 2001: A Space Odyssey. Children aren’t going to get that reference, surely?).

The worst moment, I think, is during Sam’s Ring temptation scene. Sam gets a fair amount of monologue here, but we actually get to see the Plateau of Gorgoroth transformed into a flowering meadow, amid fantastical delusion. That’s fine, but did he really need to imagine the Orcs transforming into cuddly animals? I understand that Rankin-Bass are very much playing up the notion that the Orcs are as much a victim of Sauron as anyone else. I am actually fine with Frodo’s weird dream sequence, where he imagines himself getting along fine with them in a better world. But any film that transforms an Orc into an opossum is very hard to take seriously*. Rankin-Bass’ whimsy works with The Hobbit, but it does not work with a serious story like The Return of the King.

*Now there’s a sentence you don’t see every day.

(Oh, and speaking of annoying animation choices, Lava is Boiling Kool Aid is in full-swing at Mount Doom. Sure, it’s a minor gripe, but still…).

**

So… the Rankin-Bass Return of the King from 1980. A forty year-old Made for TV monstrosity that is notable for actually getting Sam right, Denethor half-right, and for the most catchy song involving Orcs ever to appear in Western media. Apart from that, it’s bad. Very bad. But still strangely watchable, once you realise you are dealing with So Bad It’s Good material, spread out across ninety-seven minutes’ worth of incoherent silliness. But, honestly, Rankin-Bass, you should have stuck with The Hobbit. You were actually good at that.