British hip-hop group Big Brovaz enjoyed huge success five years ago with hit songs including Nu Flow and Favourite Things.

They went on to win two Mobo awards, but were dropped by their record label after two singles in a row failed to make the top 10.

Singers Nadia and Cherise recently returned to the charts with the dance record Boogie 2Nite, but they have rejoined their former bandmates for a new Big Brovaz album.

As the group prepares to join the battle to represent the UK at the Eurovision Song Contest, they talk about their comeback.

How are things different for Big Brovaz second time around?

The band have slimmed down to a four-piece since 2002

CHERISE: It's like starting from scratch. We don't have people looking over our shoulders trying to have their own creative input this time.

Was that a problem before?

CHERISE: Definitely. There was a lot of pressure from Sony [the band's former record label] when we were recording the second album. There were too many different opinions being thrown in and it was crazy. It's nice to break away from that.

Your single talks about being knocked down and coming back stronger. Is that referring to the problems you had with Sony?

CHERISE: That's what it is about, definitely.

J-ROCK: Basically it's about being yourself. It's about doing what you want, not having any inhibitions and coming out triumphant. It's in the same vein as Nu Flow but rather than being an introduction this is saying we're here to stay.

The band dress up as superheroes in their latest video

In the video you're wearing some rather frightening make-up. What's going on there?

J-ROCK: I dressed up like Brendan Lee in the Crow. Everyone else was a certain character as well - Randy is Blade, Cherise is Storm, Nadia is like Lara Croft and we all come together to perform like the illest superhero group ever.

RANDY: The science behind that is that during the day we have to be normal people and when we perform we have to take another persona to go on stage. You have to be kind of like a superhero. That's what the video symbolises.

Your last single, Hanging Around, didn't do that well. Does that put pressure on the new song?

RANDY: The thing is, Hanging Around was for the Damilola Taylor Trust. We donated the proceeds to the trust, we still go round and talk to kids, and we were heavily involved in the Respect Your Life, Not A Knife campaign. But when you're trying to do something positive, it's hard to get the press behind you.

David Cameron quite famously criticised hip-hop for encouraging violence. What's your take on that?

RANDY: It's not just music. It's games, it's movies, it's everything. Society is geared towards a violent culture and it manifests itself in the kids. I want us to cut it out right now so that the next generation has a chance at least.

Cherise and Nadia reached number two as dance act Booty Luv

Cherise, you and Nadia have just scored a massive hit with your side-project, Booty Love. Was the single just a one-off?

CHERISE: Actually, we've just been in the studio working on the album. The second single should be out in April.

So how do you divide your time between the two bands?

CHERISE: There is no time! [laughs] We're on the road constantly, working constantly. But we can't complain because it's better than being at home and not being busy at all.

Hip-hop isn't normally associated with the Eurovision. Are you this year's Lordi?

J-ROCK: We felt that Eurovision is a good opportunity to bring UK hip-hop to another level, taking it to an international stage.

RANDY: We're the first urban group to ever be asked to do this competition, so we consider that a privilege.

You've worked with the people behind Method Man and Jamelia on the Big Brovaz album - those are two quite different sounds. What can we expect?

J-ROCK: The whole album is that much more mature.

RANDY: They're all European producers - we wanted to keep it a European project. We like to fuse different genres of music, hip-hop and pop. That's the Big Brovaz thing right there.

Big Brovaz talked to BBC News entertainment reporter Mark Savage.

The band release Big Bro Thang on 26 February, and album Re-Entry on 20 March.