Enjoy a movie in Prague and language is no problem! There are many movie theaters and in all of them you can watch films with English subtitles. There are multiplex cinemas in most shopping malls. You will find only one IMAX theater in Prague and in the centre of the city there are smaller cinemas specializing in art films. Visit the website of the shopping centre where the cinema is located for their programmes.

Four multiplex cinemas in Prague

1. Cinema City Letnany is in the shopping centre of the same name. It distinguishes itself from other cinemas by the large auditorium with panoramic screen, an experience in itself.

2. Cinema City in the Novy Smichov shopping centre has twelve screens and is a popular venue in Prague. Here you will find the second largest movie screen in the Czech Republic (after IMAX) and a 4DX cinema, which stimulates the senses with various special effects such as wind, lightning, smell, movement of chairs in all directions, etc.

3. Cinema City Slovanský dům is the only cinema in the centre of Prague and is close to Wenceslas Square. It has 10 cinemas, eight of which show 3D films.

4. Cinema Zlicin in Metropole Zličín Shopping Centre there is a multiplex with ten theaters and is located on the 2nd mezzanine.

Subtitles or dubbing?

AT anglické titulky means English subtitles

ČV or ČD means Czech version or Czech dubbing

Usually only films for children or block buster action films are dubbed.

ČT means Czech subtitles. Some cinemas also show English subtitles at the same time and are marked as ČT/AT.

When Festivals state that all films are English-friendly, this means that they are in English or have subtitles.

VO means original version so for many Hollywood or British films this means they are in English. One catch, however, is that if characters speak a few lines of French, for example, the subtitles are only in Czech.

Cinema websites are very consumer-friendly as they filter by English subtitles and often indicate when a popular film does not have English subtitles.