One drawback film fans face in Prague is that many Czech and other European films lack English subtitles. But there are several Prague cinemas that regularly show films with them, and there are also festivals that show international films. A few projects also show classic Czech films with English subtitles.

Some of the more centrally located multiplexes will have some Czech films with English subtitles or animation in the original English version, but generally, they cater more to the Czech audience. One exception is Cinema City Slovanský dům, which hosts the annual Febiofest, a festival of international films. They make a consistent effort to have some subtitled Czech films.

When it comes to art films and festivals, one group stands out above the rest. Světozor, Aero, Bio Oko, and Přítomnost are all under the same management, and the parent company Aero now distributes some titles.

Světozor, located just off of Wenceslas Square, is the most serious of the bunch, while the Aero and Bio Oko are more like local neighborhood hangouts where people go for a coffee or beer even when they are not seeing the film. Přítomnost, the newest of the group, is a boutique cinema in Žižkov where people can sit at small tables with a beverage or snack while watching a film. Conveniently, the cinema websites let people filter for English friendly-shows and often warn when a popular title is not.

Aero currently is home to the Some Like it Czech series, which presents classic Czech films for an English-speaking audience. Other ongoing series at Aero, Bio Oko, and Světozor include operas from the Met, live or recorded plays from the U.K., and recorded rock or pop concerts.

Edison Filmhub, located in a former electrical substation building (hence the name Edison) also tends to have a lot of especially European films with English subtitles. The weirdly named ongoing series Movie Barf has its home there, and often brings interesting analysts or filmmakers to discuss the films.

The grand old lady of the Prague cinema scene is kino Lucerna, whose large hall still retains most of its Art Nouveau charm from when it opened in 1909. There is a smaller hall as well that once was a private screening room for VIPs. Many film festivals make this place their home due to its large capacity, as well as the cinema cafe, adjacent gallery, and upstairs Marble Hall, which all can host parties and receptions.

An overlooked gem is Ponrepo, the screening room of the National Film Archive. They often show rare films that aren’t seen anywhere else. Restored Czech classics now often have subtitles, and are noted as "English friendly." But older films, especially ones shown from 35 mm film, usually are in Czech or have only Czech subtitles.

The schedule often has obscure decades-old American or British films in the mix. Years ago, you needed to be a member to go there, but that is no longer the case.

Two cinemas downtown that also have the occasional festival or English-friendly film are Evald and MAT. They often can sell out due to their size. MAT currently has an ongoing series of ballet and opera from the U.K.

At the edge of Karlín, Atlas will reopen on March 21 with a schedule of art films, classics, cult films, and documentaries with lower-than-average ticket prices. Evenings with filmmakers and other personalities are planned. The new operators of Atlas will open up a second screening hall, enlarge the cafe, and add an art gallery. There is no word yet, though, on how many of the films will be English-friendly.

The trendy Vršovice neighborhood is home to Kino Pilotů has three small halls and a popular bar. The schedule on occasion has films with English subtitles and the occasional festival. It also has a program of recent films at discount prices, which often sell out in advance. On occasion, the cinema distributes art films or documentaries.