Lyrics

There once was a woman named Lucy– Madeira she had an idea for a new era.

A school for girls that won’t be finishing

but only just be starting

which would appear a Lofty goal but off we go,

a brand new course we would be charting.

We were the first to throw-the-little. white. gloves out

Getting our hands dirty we pulled the polite. rugs. out

From under what was always-taught

the old-ways of thought, where women ought to follow but

Never lead, never need to think.

So Miss Madeira put in ink

There’d be a school that shifted course to the light

inviting girls to learn their strength and their might we’ve set our sights

Now the world needs more Madeira girls

who dare to challenge and care– to reach new heights

From day one we’ve been raising girls to change the world,

A reputation we’ve been earning, look around, the heads are turning,

We’re Madeira girls, driven, disciplined, status quo disturbing

We’re Madeira girls, and we’ve raised the bar.

It’s who we are, this is a school with a mission it’s avant-garde

Madeira raises strong and ambitious women they’re going far,

Scientists and doctors, explorers artists lawyers inventors leaders this is where they start!

It’s now– that we need Madeira women

We’re Madeira girls we need Madeira women

There are still some funds we’ve left to raise,

so just donate,

Just donate.

The funds we raise will ONE build a new space for academics,

asking for help we’re not apologetic

and TWO

endow the Co-Curriculum so allow us to articulate,

’cause this will be poetic.

There’s a game-changing building in the plans,

with modern space for STEAM, ‘cause as it stands

the world’s moving fast, the jobs, changing demands.

A place to reason and be creative, the classic Madeira brand.

And then there’s the Co-Curriculum. part of that brand.

Per year, costing over three hundred grand,

an introduction to careers, so here’s the endowment,

like a trust, pulling interest every year, economically robust

-it’s a must-

that’s how our endowment will never allow the program to go bust.

(Spoken) Graduate with three internships? In Madeira, we trust.

look at what’s already been done,

All the Difference, change is steady and it’s more than begun.

Renovated the dorms, they geothermally warm

and the quad’s been transformed and that’s not all.

You donated a brand new turf field,

the legendary oval really needed the earth healed.

The campaign’s coming to a close we’re near the end of the road,

we just have one more push to go!

The time’s come to write those checks (big or small!)

The time’s come to write those checks (cash or credit!)

We’re almost there, a tax write-off that– you can declare,

the time’s come to write those checks (you share when you care!)

The time’s come to write those checks (big or small!)

The time’s come to write those checks

Your gifts, your support and your donations make you part of our success

Gifts big or small– help Madeira to progress.

And yes, this is the final stretch the 90%’s been given.

We’re Madeira girls, and we need Madeira women!