Was there anybody cooler than Bob Dylan in 1965 and 1966? The waif-like presence with that unkempt crown of curls. The combination of Carnaby Street polka dot shirts, Beatle boots and New York leather jacket toughness. Eyes often masked by dark shades. Many photographers brilliantly captured the Dylan aura during this time, most notably Daniel Kramer and Jerry Schatzberg.

My one small contribution to the documentation of Dylan history involves Daniel Kramer’s work. I was a cataloger and researcher for a museum exhibit featuring his 1965 photos. One of his pictures was a black and white shot of Dylan in the recording studio pensively writing in a small notebook. Kramer’s annotation placed the portrait as being captured during the sessions for the “Positively 4th Street” single. However, the date he provided didn’t match up with any other documentation for that particular recording. But the date did happen to coincide with the “Like a Rolling Stone” sessions. Kramer had his wife check his diary and sure enough, the photo actually did take place during the recording of perhaps Dylan’s most iconic song. I’ve seen this photo with the “Positively 4th Street” attribution in countless past publications, but I have seen it corrected in more recent times, too. During an interview at the museum, Kramer expressed his appreciation for the updated photo information. The host and curator then pointed at me sitting in the front row and said, “There’s the cataloger responsible right there!”

The original first pressings of my favorite Bob Dylan album Blonde on Blonde included Jerry Schatzberg’s portrait of Italian actress Claudia Cardinale (chosen by Dylan himself), which was removed from later pressings due to conflicts with her agents. Whenever I encountered a copy in a used record store, I’d always look at the cover’s inside gatefold to see if the photo was there. One time I found the LP for $15 in pretty good condition, looked inside and. . . THERE WAS CLAUDIA! I even had some store credit, so I paid almost nothing for this original pressing. I don’t collect a lot of rare LPs, and this edition of Blonde on Blonde isn’t particularly valuable, but it’s one little collector’s item I’ve always wanted.

Schatzberg’s Dylan photographs are some of my favorites. The blurry Blonde on Blonde cover shot is often misinterpreted as reflecting a drug induced state, but actually came about because both Dylan and Schatzberg were shivering in the February cold. It was Dylan once again who picked it for the cover. Schatzburg says Dylan chose every photo used for the LP artwork, including a portrait of the photographer himself.

I recently picked up a copy of the book Dylan by Schatzberg, which is exactly what the title implies. A beautiful collection of photographs that the pair created together in two and a half years during the mid-60s. Dylan is shown performing in concert, both solo and with the Hawks, later known as the Band. Other images are of him attending late night club parties and giving interviews in hotel rooms. The Highway 61 Revisited album sessions are documented with Dylan directing the musicians and then almost hiding away as he scribbles lyrics in a notebook once again. But some of the most compelling shots are posed sessions in Schatzberg’s studio where Dylan constantly finds surprising ways to use props. Whether he’s wrapped awkwardly around a conga drum, holding a giant lighter or lifting a crude stone cross above his head as a black cat crouches at his feet, Dylan seems to use objects in the same surreal way he uses words. He comes off as a mischievous, mod scarecrow in these portraits. It’s only in the last few years that I realized that Schatzberg had introduced me to another scarecrow as well, only through a different medium.

As a teenager watching movies in the 1970s, two actors that caught my attention early on were Dustin Hoffman and Al Pacino. When my parents took me to a drive-in screening of Midnight Cowboy, much of the story went far over my young head. But seeing Hoffman as a disabled person in a movie was revelatory for me, being disabled myself. Here was a scruffy underdog I could root for and one thing I did catch about the story was the friendship between the two main characters. Seeing Pacino in films such as Panic in Needle Park, Serpico and Dog Day Afternoon around the same time gave me another outsider to consider. Both actors carried that disheveled coolness that I found in Dylan.

Watching television one very late night, I came upon a scene of a lonely country road surrounded by empty fields. A man, played by Gene Hackman, stumbles across the field until he reaches the road, where he encounters Al Pacino standing on the opposite side attempting to hitch a ride. So begins Scarecrow, which is directed by none other than Jerry Schatzberg. It turns out that shortly after working with Dylan, Schatzberg became a filmmaker and even directed Pacino’s first lead movie role in Panic in Needle Park. In 1973, they would work together again on Scarecrow.

It’s easy to see why I fell for this film. Much like Midnight Cowboy, it’s a character-driven piece about two underdogs in search of a better life. Pacino’s Francis, nicknamed “Lion,” hopes to reunite with his wife and son in Detroit, while Hackman’s Max plans to start a business in Pittsburgh. Lion is a gregarious, eager-to-please dreamer, who often rubs the more reserved, sensible Max the wrong way. This combination lands the pair in trouble, tragically leaving neither of their plans turning out the way they anticipated. Both actors give stellar performances, even though, much like their characters, their differing acting methods often clashed. Pacino insisted on staying in character. Hackman did his job and was able to leave his work behind at the end of the day. But both say that Scarecrow is among their favorite films. It’s one of mine, too.

So, Mr. Schatzberg, thank you for all the scarecrows. Your Dylan images reveal a unique glimpse of a great artist and performer. And Scarecrow allows me to reflect on the rewards and pitfalls of friendship and dreams. Count me as an admirer, not a laughing crow.

APRIL 20, 2023