Chief People Officer

Sarah Setchell is the Chief People Officer. She is a member of University Executive Board and leads the department of People Experience and Culture.

Chief Operating Officer

Stephen Dudderidge is the Chief Operating Officer at the University of Derby. Stephen has extensive experience in supporting university governance and in leading a range of large, award-winning, professional services in support of the student and staff experience.

Provost - Innovation and Research

Professor Warren Manning is Provost - Innovation and Research. He drives forward the University's strategic ambitions for research excellence, knowledge exchange and commercial and enterprise activities. His academic background is in Mechanical Engineering, specialising in vehicle dynamics, chassis control systems and automotive mechatronics.

Pro Vice-Chancellor and Dean, College Arts, Humanities and Education

As a Pro Vice-Chancellor and Dean for the College of Arts, Humanities & Education Professor Molasiotis provides leadership across the College for education and research excellence, manages staff and sets and overseas strategic goals and developments.

Pro Vice-Chancellor and Dean, College of Science and Engineering

Dr Chris Bussell is the Pro Vice-Chancellor and Dean of the College of Science and Engineering. Chris's academic field is in human physiology, with particular focus on responses and adaptation to high performance and health outcomes arising through increased participation in physical activity.

Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive

Professor Kathryn Mitchell is the Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive of the University of Derby. Her academic background is in Psychology and she continues to play an active role in research.

University Secretary and Registrar

June Hughes is the University Secretary and Registrar. Her role spans all aspects of our academic administration and student services across all sites from admissions to graduation.

Pro Vice-Chancellor and Dean of the College of Health, Psychology and Social Care

Denise is Pro Vice-Chancellor and Dean of the College of Health, Psychology and Social Care at the University. She previously managed pre-qualifying healthcare and our foundation degrees/higher apprenticeships. She is currently studying for a professional doctorate exploring how apprenticeship policy is being implemented in the National Health Service.