As the chief executive officer of the city organization, the city manager is responsible for the daily administration of the city’s operations and affairs. The city manager is hired by the nine-member governing body to serve the community and bring the benefit of education, training, and experience in managing local government organizations, projects, and programs.

About Derby

The City of Derby has a $52 million annual budget, 214 full-time and 52 part-time employees, and a steady mill levy. It is a full-service city providing water, sewer, police, fire, and other municipal services in the metropolitan Wichita area of south-central Kansas. Derby has the 16th largest population in the state (25,847) and in 2020 became a city of the first class (per Kansas Statutes).

City Manager Duties

The city manager's office is responsible for all city employees, with the exception of the municipal judge which is a contractual appointment of the governing body. Responsibilities include supervision of all city departments, projects, and programs, and ensuring service delivery to the public. The city manager is ultimately accountable for the city’s finances, including presenting an annual budget for city council approval. The city manager:

Supervises city departments and employees

Serves as the city council’s chief advisor and carries out the city council’s policies

Implements and enforces policies established by the elected officials

Recruits, hires, disciplines, and terminates employees

Fulfills a leadership role in the community as a means of advancing the interests of the city

Prepares a budget for the city council’s consideration

2023 Adopted Budget

Council members and citizens count on the city manager to provide complete and objective information, pros and cons of alternatives, and long-term consequences of decisions and policies. The city manager relies on city staff to provide professional and well-reasoned information and recommendations, and the highest level of public service possible.