From 1391 to 1583, the Muzaffarid dynasty, often known as the Ahmedabad dynasty, ruled Gujarat in western India. Zafar Khan (later Muzaffar Shah I), the governor of Gujarat in the Delhi Sultanate, founded the dynasty. Sadharan Khan, Zafar Khan's father, has been said as either a Tank Rajput or a Khatri convert to Islam. He came from Southern Punjab and rose to nobility in the Delhi Sultan's court. His Hindu forefathers were believed to be descended from Ramchandra, the Hindu God. When the Sultanate was devastated by Timur's sacking of Delhi, Zafar Khan used this opportunity to establish himself as the Sultan of Gujarat. In this article, we will discuss the Muzaffarid Dynasty in Gujarat which will be helpful for UPSC exam preparation.

Important Rulers

Important Rulers of Muzaffarid Dynasty in Gujarat

Zafar Khan/Muzaffar Shah

Muzaffar Shah was the founder of the Muzaffarid dynasty.

He was appointed as governor by Sultan Nasir ud din Muhammad Shah III in 1391.

He was governor of Gujarat from 1391 to 1403 before he was deposed by his son Tatar Khan.

Tatar imprisoned him and declared himself sultan under the name Muhammad Shah in 1403.

He marched towards Delhi, but his uncle Shams Khan poisoned him along the way.

Muzaffar was released from prison after Muhammad Shah's death and again assumed leadership of the administration in 1404.

In 1407, he declared himself an independent monarch and assumed the title of Muzaffar Shah after Timur's invasion.

He led a victorious expedition against Sultan Hushang Ghori of Dhar (Malwa).

Due to his declining health, he abdicated the kingdom in 1410 in favour of his grandson Ahmad Shah I.

*For detailed notes of this topic, check this link Zafar Khan/Muzaffar Shah (1407 – 1411 CE)

Ahmed Shah I (1411 – 1441 CE)

Ahmad Shah I, also known as Ahmad Khan, was a Muzaffarid dynasty ruler who ruled over the Gujarat Sultanate from 1411 to 1442.

He was the son of Muhammad Shah I (Tatar Khan) and grandson of Muzaffar Shah.

He made his grandfather Muzaffar Shah swallow poison to take the revenge of his father’s death and killed him.

In 1411, at the age of 19, Ahmad Shah succeeded to the throne with the title of Nasir-ud-dunya Wad-din Abul Fateh Ahmad Shah.

He moved the capital from Patan to a new city of Ahmedabad in 1413 CE.

He enforced the levy of jizya on Hindus while also inducting Hindus into his government.

Two Hindu ministers Moti Chand and Manik Chand were present in his court.

He was a just ruler who publicly executed his son-in-law for murder.

The rich architectural traditions of Gujarat's Jains temple impacted him greatly.

The Jami Masjid in Ahmedabad and the Teen Darwaza are excellent examples of his period's architectural style.

Ahmed died in 1442, in his fifty-third year and thirty-third year of reign, and was buried in the Badshah no Hajiro shrine near Manek Chowk in Ahmedabad.

His post-death title was Khudaigan-i-Maghfur the Forgiven lord.

*For detailed notes of this topic, check this link Ahmed Shah Ⅰ (1411 – 1441)

Mahmud Begarha (1459-1511 CE)

Sultan Mahmud Begarha was the most powerful Sultan of Gujarat Sultanate.

The nobles elevated his uncle Daud Khan, son of Ahmad Shah I, to the throne after the death of Kutb-ud-dn Ahmad Shah II.

However, Daud promoted low-born guys to top positions and engaged in unethical behaviour.

He was overthrown in a matter of days, and his half-brother Fateh Khan, the son of Muhammad Shah II, was seated on the throne with the title of Mahmud Shah I at the young age of thirteen.

The kingdom expanded to its greatest size under him, with the Arabian Sea on the west, Khandesh on the south, Malwa on the east, and Jalor and Nagaur on the north.

Mahmud Begarha was called Begarha because he captured two important forts (garhs) – Girnar in Saurashtra (now Junagarh) and Champaner in south Gujarat.

Mustafabad, a new town at the foot of the hill, founded by Mahmud, became the second capital of Gujarat.

Dwarka was sacked by Mahmud because it was home to pirates who preyed on pilgrims on their way to Mecca.

Mahmud Begarha launched an expedition against the Portuguese, who were obstructing Gujarat's trade with West Asian countries.

Trade and commerce prospered throughout Mahmud Begarha's long and peaceful rule.

*For detailed notes of this topic, check this link Mahmud Begarha (1459 – 1511 CE)

Conclusion

Conclusion

The Muzaffarid dynasty ruled Gujarat in western India. The dynasty lasted for over 200 years, until the Mughal Empire conquered Gujarat in 1572. Muzaffar Shah was the founder of the Muzaffarid dynasty. Initially, he was governor of Delhi Sultanate and in 1407, he declared himself an independent monarch and assumed the title of Muzaffar Shah after Timur's invasion. Ahmed Shah I, his son, established Ahmedabad as the capital. Under Mahmud Begada, the sultanate achieved its pinnacle of expansion, spreading east into Malwa and west to the Gulf of Kutch.