Celebrations are planned throughout the year as one of England's most historic churches reaches the grand age of 1,400.

St Mary the Virgin in Fordwich, just outside Canterbury, is thought to date all the way back to the year 620 - making it one of the oldest churches in the land.

The Grade I-listed place of worship, which is likely to have originally been constructed from wood, is still standing strong thanks to the care of a conservation charity.

Though there is no hard evidence to prove the church’s early years, custodian Philip Lewis says its history is “very likely” to stretch back more than just a mere millennia.

“In Victorian or Edwardian times someone wrote on one of the hymn boards detailing 620,” he said.

“That’s the record we have of the date - sadly all the other records were previously destroyed in fires.

“It’s very circumstantial, there isn’t proven facts or documents. But I think it’s very likely.”

Mr Lewis added: “Augustine arrived and settled in 597, and he wanted to send his message out.

“In Fordwich, he had good links to the continent as it was Canterbury's port, so he would have set up a church from where he could easily send out priests or monks to spread the message of Christianity.

“They’d have ships at Fordwich and then be able to go out onto the sea.

“Those going out to sea would want to pray before they left, so having a church here by the river would work well.”

The existing church was built in the 11th century in Anglo-Saxon times, with the spired tower added two centuries later.

Services ceased in 1995 and the church closed before it was taken over by the Churches Conservation Trust the following year.

It has since been open to the general public - drawing in visitors for its age and for being home to the fabled Fordwich Stone which is believed to have previously been part of a shrine to St Augustine.

William Shakespeare is believed to have performed with the King’s Players - a London-based theatre company - in Fordwich in 1605.

It isn’t detailed where in the town the play was hosted, but Mr Lewis believes The Bard probably made the church his stage.

Mr Lewis explained: “The people of Canterbury came to Fordwich to watch him perform.

"Aside from the church - which was an empty shell at the time - there wouldn’t have been a space large enough to fit them.

“There is no graffiti saying ‘William was here’, but again, it’s very likely he performed here.”

To celebrate the church’s rich history, events will be held across the 1,400th anniversary year, including a performance of Shakespeare’s The Tempest, an art exhibition and a garden open day across the town.

More details of the celebration events will be revealed on the official launch of the anniversary on March 14.

Mr Lewis says the Churches Conservation Trust has continued to safeguard the church for this generation.

“Storm Ciara took a load of tiles off the roof, and within three days, they had been replaced," he said.

“It’s brilliant to have the church being cared for.

“It’s a special and important place.”

Canterbury also boasts the oldest church in England - St Martin’s, in North Holmes Road.