Just days before her death, Hollywood star Brittany Murphy spoke excitedly about plans to fly to Australia to work again with director George Miller on the sequel to their Oscar-winning animated blockbuster, Happy Feet.

The American actress, 32, died on Sunday at her Hollywood Hills home.

The Los Angeles Coroner's Office is expected to conduct an autopsy on Monday to determine how Murphy, star of Sin City, 8 Mile, Girl Interrupted and Clueless, suddenly died.

In one of her last public events, earlier this month, Murphy spoke to reporters at a boutique opening in Los Angeles where she spoke glowingly of how she was planning to fly to Sydney to work on Happy Feet 2.

"I'm going to Australia for Happy Feet 2, the sequel to Happy Feet, obviously, which has an amazing cast which I don't think I'm allowed to mention yet," Murphy told US celebrity TV show, Access Hollywood.

"George Miller is directing again. It should be pretty incredible."

Happy Feet, which also included Hugh Jackman, Nicole Kidman and the late Steve Irwin as voice talent, won the best animated film Oscar at the 2007 Academy Awards.

At the boutique opening Murphy was asked how she managed to stay out of the headlines, while other members of young Hollywood seemed to end up as tabloid fodder.

"I have been very blessed to have a loving husband and family," she replied.

"I'm very close to them. I spend a lot more time with my family than probably anyone else in the world."

Murphy's death came just weeks after a medical drama involving her husband Simon Monjack, a screenwriter. Monjack was transported to hospital after arriving on a flight from Puerto Rico to LA with his wife.

When asked what her new year's resolution was, Murphy said she hoped to have a baby in 2010.

"As far as having a new year's resolution, I'd love to have a child next year, but that's kind of a large one," she told Access Hollywood.

Assistant LA Coroner Ed Winter said initial reports indicated that Murphy died from heart-related causes.