Costers del Segre is a Spanish Denominación of Origen Protegida for wines produced in the Catalan province of Lleida. The Costers del Segre wine appellation is a union of seven communes dispersed throughout the valley of the River Segre and the Lleida Pyrenees with a common goal of producing high-quality wines in the province of Lleida. The name “Costers del Segre” translates to "the banks of the River Segre," a tributary of the Ebro, which was founded less than two decades ago. Costers del Segre is the first DO to have its sustainability program.

Check out the best wine tastings and tours in Costers del Segre!

Where is the Costers del Segre wine region?

Costers del Segre is a Denominación de Origen wine area in Catalonia, on Spain's northwestern coast. The name refers to the 'Banks of the Segre,' a river that flows from the Pyrenees mountains and reaches the Ebro River about south of Lleida. The majority of vineyards are located in the Segre's vast basin. The DO was established in 1986, but it has gone through several changes since then, including the introduction of new foreign varieties, the adoption of current California winemaking techniques, and the formation of sub-regions.

History of the Costers del Segre wine region

Winemaking has thrived in Costers del Segre for generations, despite its relatively inconvenient position in terms of trading routes. It went on indefinitely until phylloxera devastated the region in the late 1800s. Many traditional wine-growing sites were not replanted but were instead converted to olive groves. Traditional grapes such as Samso (Carinena) gave way to more popular grapes, both local (Monastrell) and foreign (Cabernet Sauvignon) (Cabernet Sauvignon). The region grew to prominence once more as a result of a single estate, Raimat, located near the designation's westernmost point. Raimat is Spain's largest privately owned winery and one of its most inventive, and it is largely responsible for putting Costers del Segre on the international wine map.

The terroir and geography of the Costers del Segre wine region

The climate is continental with hot summers and chilly winters which are mostly affected by the Pyrenees. The average rainfall in the wine appellation is roughly 450 mm, with 300 mm being more prevalent in the west. Throughout the year, there are also severe temperature differences between day and night. Drought, hailstones, and spring frosts are all potential threats to vineyards. Although the vineyards are geographically distributed, the majority are on dark lime-yielding soils with a high lime level, low clay content, and low organic matter. The elevation of Costers del Segre ranges from 250 to 700 meters above sea level.

Popular grape varieties from the Costers del Segre wine region

The classic white wine types Macabeu and Parellada predominate across the region. The maximum allowed planting density is 2,500 vines per acre. Vineyards in the province's west employ irrigation systems to combat the effects of cold and heat.

The grape varieties authorized by the appellation are:

Red: Garnatxa Negra, Ull de llebre, Trepat, Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot, Monastrell / Garrut, Sumoll, Syrah, Mazuela / Samsó, Pinot Noir, Cabernet Franc, Garnatxa Tintorera, Petit Verdot, and Malbec.

White: Macabeu, Xarel·lo, Parellada, Chardonnay, Garnatxa Blanca, Riesling, Sauvignon Blanc, Moscatell d’Alexandria, Malvasia / Subirat Parent, Gewurztraminer, Albarinho, Chenin, Viognier, Verdejo, and Godello.

Food to pair with Costers del Segre wine

Roast lamb

Lamb is a versatile meat that can be enjoyed year-round with special indulgence. Many flavors complement lamb so you can use a variety of herbs, spices, and seasonings to enhance the flavor of your choice.

Roasted lamb dishes such as rack of lamb, leg of lamb, or lamb cutlets, go well with powerful red wines from the Costers del Segre wine appellation.

Coq au vin

Coq au vin, a famous French dish, has been around for centuries and it is still enjoyed today. The tender and juicy meat with rich and luscious sauce satisfied any palate during any time of the year. The dish is usually made of chicken, bacon, mushrooms, and shallots in a red wine sauce. Traditionally, Coq au vin is served with boiled potatoes on the side.

Coq au vin can be prepared using different ingredients such as vegetables and meat, which makes it versatile enough to be enjoyed by a wide range of wines especially complex wines from Costers del Segre.

Époisses cheese

Époisses is a cow's milk crumbly cheese with a shiny rind and a pale beige, creamy, somewhat salty body. It must mature for at least 4 weeks before its salty, spicy, and sweet tastes, as well as a powerful, pungent scent, are fully developed.

According to the BBC, the cheese is so smelly that it has been banned from public transportation in France. Its natural, brick red glossy rind forms during the aging process when it is rinsed with Marc de Bourgogne water (an aged brandy from Burgundy). Époisses are packaged in a wooden box to facilitate transportation and keep the cheese from pouring out.

It's best to serve it with a slice of crusty bread and a glass of dry white wine from Costers del Segre.

Places to visit in the Costers del Segre wine region

Turo Seu Vella

The Turó de la Seu Vella is a hill in the heart of Lleida and is also the highest point in the city overlooking the Segre plain. The Seu Vella de Lérida, the Canonical, the Zuda Castle, the Ice Wells, and the walls of various bastions that encircle it are all located on the promontory. The complex is also fantastic. The structures are still in excellent condition. The medieval church still contains lovely 13th-century murals, and there are also lovely old gates on the grounds.

You can't miss it when you drive into Lleida. The Turo Seu Vella stands tall and strong on top of the city's tallest peak. Even if you aren't interested in history, the climb will reward you with spectacular views of the entire town.

Parque Natural Municipal de la Mitjana

La Mitjana is an excellent place for strolling, sports, and watching birds and plants. In 1979, it was recognized as a natural area of interest. Mitjana Park is a river-like ecological zone in Lleida that is densely packed with tiny lakes and trees. The park is spread across 90 hectares and is located northeast of the city, along the Segre river, upstream from the Seros canal dam.

Water is the most distinctive feature of the area. The current microclimate has promoted the development of rich riparian woodland. The flora of the region includes poplars, poplars, ash trees, shrub plants such as willows, tamarinds, or brambles, and the Boga, reed, yellow lily, or reed. The area has picnic spaces, a jetty, and pedestrian bridges that span the Segre River.

Ceck out top wineries to visit in Costers del Serge!

Frequently asked questions about Costers del Segre