Knowledge is

Power

Unlock your potential with personalized Astrology insights to utilize the power of your birth chart.

“MSN’s Top 15 Visionary Educators Inspiring Knowledge and Growth for 2024”

Cut through the noise. Bringing you astrology in a more PRACTICAL , digestible way.

"Let me start by saying that Asya has a gift. I’ve had so many fluffy, overly generalized astrology readings with other people in the past that left me feeling disappointed. I have had several readings with Asya and I always leave with information that is relevant, inspiring, and actionable. Asya delivers information in a digestible, grounded, and understandable way that leaves you feeling like you have a clear path forward with obvious steps to take. Not only does she shine a light on where to put your focus, but she always helps me identify the feelings that are holding me back from taking those steps so I know where to give myself more time and patience. This has been incredibly instrumental in my personal and business development and I am so grateful for her. (You will be too)"

— AV

"I recently had the privilege of experiencing a Saturn return reading by Asya Rose. The accuracy with which she pinpointed aspects of my life was nothing short of astounding. Asya's in-depth knowledge of astrology was evident as she delved into the complexities of my chart, providing comprehensive and insightful interpretations. Her understanding of Saturn return brought clarity and direction to my life in a profoundly transformative way. A consultation with Asya Rose is truly enlightening - her accuracy, wisdom, and intuitive gifts are remarkable. Highly recommended for anyone seeking profound astrological insights.”

— EA

"I had my first session with Asya with no expectations, I am not familiar with much astrology. In fact, I avoid following astrology accounts because I feel confused and often ask myself, so what now? Asya chose to focus on a few main points so I wouldn’t be overwhelmed, she explain first in general and then how it specifically affects me. She gave examples and honestly I felt very validated. Nothing she said surprised me but showed me that I was more connected to myself and astrology than I realized. She gave specific time frames for me to pay attention to themes but not in a fear based way. It was easily digestible and leaves you wanting more. I highly recommend not just one, but check-ins thoughout the year.”

— HM

"I absolutely love working with Asya and am so grateful to be the recipient of her beautiful gift. Her enthusiasm for her craft is infectious and I left my session feeling so empowered and educated. I've worked with astrologers in the past who made me feel nervous about challenging dates to come or impending difficult periods, but Asya shined a light on my chart that felt hopeful and exciting. She showed me some amazing synchronicities and helped me make the most out of a very auspicious birthday, which felt so supportive and loving. Asya's astrological talents feel like magic, but she approaches her readings with such wisdom and practicality that you feel as though you are being gently and powerfully guided through the year to come."

— AK

"Asya's astrological wisdom and strategic coaching are a secret weapon for her clients to sail the waters of their soul's journey with power and grace. If you're ready to uplevel your life, craving more clarity and support through the challenges you're facing on your journey and committed to doing the work to create the life you dream of, Asya's guidance is here to help you on your way."

— CB

"Asya brings with her a strong understanding of astrology paired with a supportive disposition. She shares astrology through a lens that is tangible, meeting you where you are at with your personal knowledge of the stars and the many layers within a birth chart. For me specifically, she was an integral part of my Saturn Return journey. Her warmth and humor make you feel as if you are speaking to a close friend who is cheering you on to tackle whatever you are facing. Her perspective is empowering, valuable, and the wisdom you didn’t know you needed to hear. I highly recommend booking with Asya if you are truly looking to feel seen by a deeply informed Scorpio."

— ES

"Asya is a force! No one describes Astrology, in all its nuance and complexity, as simply and digestibly as her. Whether it’s matters of the heart or what to do for work, she sees right to the core of the issue, providing guidance and insight. She never dodges the challenging or difficult yet always makes the way forward plain, practical, and positive. More than just an astrologer Asya is a life coach, truth seer, and a motivating force who will help you realize your full potential."

— JW

I am here to Empower you in various areas of your life with personalized life guidance, rooted in wisdom and experience through my unique perspective.

Subscribe

Sign up with your email address to receive news and updates.

Email Address

Thank you!