UtahMonarch Air Group provides private air charter in Heber City, Utah. Our clients benefit from top-notch service, unrelenting dedication to safety, wide selection of aircraft, and years of experience in chartering private jets. To obtain a free quote, please use our online quoting tool provided below, or call toll-free 1-877-281-3051.

Charter a private jet to Heber City, Utah

Book a Private Jet Charter to Heber City, Utah

Monarch Air Group provides private jet charter flights in and out of Heber City, Utah.

In the U.S. state of Utah, Heber City is located in Wasatch County, 43 miles southeast of Salt Lake City. Utah’s magnificent desert scenery and snowy mountains make Heber City private jet charter a popular choice. As a result, the city has become a popular tourist destination and offers excellent conditions for snowboarding, snowmobiling, and skiing. During the summer, Heber City offers many activities, including fishing, hunting, golf, and other outdoor activities.

Heber City continues to be an agricultural center and an attractive place to do business. With a private jet flight to Heber City, it is open to the public at any time of the year. This diverse landscape hides treasures and experiences that will appeal to everyone, from the solitude-seeking explorer to the family looking to relax.

Charter a private jet to Heber City to experience a small-town charm. Heber Valley Railroad as well as Wing Museum are popular destinations, and Uinta National Forest offers breathtaking geographic scenery and views. Moreover, Deer Creek State Park is known for a wide range of exciting water activities, and Jordanelle State Park is a must-see for nature lovers.

One mile south of Heber City is Heber Valley Airport. The city’s general aviation airport serves charter jets to and from Heber City.

Cost to charter a private jet to or from Heber City

The cost of a private jet to Heber City will vary depending on the size of the private jet, duration, flight time, and other factors. Here are some price options for private jets to or from Heber City.

To/From Location San Francisco Los Angeles Minneapolis Aircraft Type Turboprops Turboprops Light Jet Estimated Price

(One-Way) $12,500 – $18,500 $12,000 – $16,500 $16,500 – $23,500 Flight Duration 2hr 40min 2hr 30min 2hr 35min

Heber City Private Jet Airports within 70 miles

HCR, KHCR, Heber City Municipal

PVU, KPVU, Provo Municipal

SLC, KSLC, Salt Lake City International

FAQs: Private Jet Flights to Heber City

Our clients travel on efficient and comfortable private jets. If you haven’t found the answers to all your questions here, you can contact our experienced and reliable team at any time or visit our air charter FAQ page.