Katie Holmes and Tom Cruise were together for roughly 7 years. Their high-profile relationship witnessed its ups and downs. The two share a 17-year-old daughter named Suri Cruise. The actor is on bad terms with his daughter as the two haven’t met since Holmes and Cruise ended their marriage. It was revealed recently that the actor will cover her university’s tuition fee as she is all set to pursue higher education.

Advertisement

Holmes and Cruise first confirmed dating rumors back in 2005, however, seven months before that, Kaite Holmes somehow predicted that she will end up with Cruise. She was engaged to actor Chris Klein at the time.

Katie Holmes predicted her relationship with Tom Cruise

Back in 2004, actress Katie Holmes appeared for an interview with Seventeen magazine and predicted her relationship with actor Tom Cruise when she was engaged to actor Chris Klein. She said,

Advertisement

“I used to think that I was going to marry Tom Cruise.”

She proved that manifestation is real as just six months later, it was announced that she has ended her relationship with Chris Klein and one month after that, Holmes and Cruise were spotted in Rome as a couple for the first time.

Also read: Tom Cruise Saved $44M Critically Acclaimed Movie That Helped Cate Blanchett Land Her 8th Oscar Nomination: “You’ll have to do exactly what I tell you”

Katie Holmes and Tom Cruise were together for roughly seven years

After their first public appearance as a couple in Rome in 2005, they were spotted together on multiple occasions. In 2005, Cruise appeared on The Oprah Winfrey Show and expressed his love for Holmes.

Advertisement

Tom Cruise proposed to Katie Holmes at the Eiffel Tower in 2005 and they welcomed their first child, Suri Cruise, in April 2006. They finally got married in Italy several months after welcoming their daughter.

Also read: “We were in bed all day, I thought he was really aroused”: Thandie Newton Was Uncomfortable Making Out With Tom Cruise on Camera During Mission Impossible

The relationship came to an end in 2012

Unfortunately, their magical relationship came to an end in 2012 as Holmes filed for divorce from Cruise. Their divorce was finalized just a few weeks later in July 2012. The real reason behind their split was never revealed, but there were speculations that Holmes didn’t want her daughter to follow Scientology, Cruise’s religion, and that’s why they ended their marriage. As per the divorce agreements, Cruise was reportedly ordered to give Holmes about $400,000 a month until Suri turns 18.

Advertisement

As per sources, the actor has not met his daughter since the divorce. It was recently revealed that 17-year-old Suri Cruise is planning to pursue higher education and Tom Cruise will fund everything including medical, dental, insurance, education, college, and other extracurricular costs. Katie Holmes is reported to be “heavily involved” in the process and wants her daughter to stay close to her house.

Related: Tom Cruise is Spending $112 Million More on His Next Action Project Than the Most Expensive ‘Mission Impossible’ Movie Yet

Source: TheThings