(CBS News) Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes are calling it quits after five years of marriage, reports People.

Pictures: Tom and Katie

Pictures: TomKat: Wedding morning

Pictures: Tom Cruise

Pictures: Katie Holmes

Pictures: Suri Cruise

Pictures: Celebrity splits

Cruise's rep told People that Holmes filed for divorce, adding, "Tom is deeply saddened and is concentrating on his three children. Please allow them their privacy."

"Katie's primary concern remains, as it always has been, her daughter's best interest," Holmes' attorney Jonathan Wolfe told People.

TMZ reports that Holmes cited irreconcilable differences in divorce papers, filed Thursday, and she's asking for sole legal custody and "primary residential custody" of the couple's 6-year-old daughter, Suri.

Holmes didn't accompany Cruise to the recent "Rock of Ages" red carpet premieres. But they did step out together as recently as February at an Oscar party.

Cruise, 49, married Holmes, 33, in Italy in November 2006.

The actors began dating in April 2005, and shortly after, the media dubbed them "TomKat." Cruise expressed his love for Holmes during a visit to "The Oprah Winfrey Show" while famously jumping up and down on the couch. In October of that year, the couple announced they were expecting a baby. A year later, they were married. In the years since, the Hollywood pair have been subject to various tabloid reports, though they've always defended their love for each other. Some tabloids even reported that Holmes had signed a contract, stating she would stay married for five years.

In the June 2012 issue of Playboy, Cruise gushed over Holmes, saying, "She is an extraordinary person, and if you spent five minutes with her, you'd see it. Everything she does, she does with this beautiful creativity. She's funny and charming, and when she walks into the room, I just feel better."

Cruise has been married twice before - first to Mimi Rogers and then to Nicole Kidman. He has two children with Kidman.

Tell us: Are you surprised by the split?