Elianny Chavez

Edu 101 Foundations of Education

Sonia Maldonado

March 30th, 2017

Spring 2017

Eugenio Maria de Hostos

Eugenio Maria de Hostos was born in Mayaguez, Puerto Rico to parents Maria Hilaria Bonilla, and Eugenio Maria de Hostos y Rodríguez on January 11, 1839. Eugenio was sociologist ,writer, politician, philosopher, and lawyer. His first years of education took place in San Juan School, in his native country of Puerto Rico. During his teenage years Eugenio was sent to Spain to continue his education, where years later he graduated as a lawyer. From a young age Eugenio Maria de Hostos was an idealist, with ideas of independence for Puerto Rico, Spain, and Cuba.

After solving issues with the education systems in countries of Central …show more content…

One can assume, that Eugenio made these changes because he was a wise and Brilliant man. He always wanted equality for all people. Also, he believed in the power of education . Eugenio believed education should be strengthened in different aspects to achieve faster and better learning styles for students. To be able to make changes in education, Eugenio Maria de Hostos experienced many problems because often governments and religious authorities did not believe in his new strategies. If one had to face the obstacles that Eugenio Maria de Hostos had to face, one would not have done anything different, because as well, as him one believes in the power of education and would fight to achieve to a well structured education …show more content…

Today, students can enjoy the education system differently because of his efforts to change education for the better. As for women they can develop as professional individuals. Eugenio is remembered as a courageous, and honest human being. In the countries where he lived, he is remembered for his contributions in education, philosophy, and sociology. As a hispanic female college student, I am grateful for the contributions Eugenio Maria de Hostos made to education. Eugenio Maria de Hostos will be remembered as one the greatest educators.

Reference

Joshua, Arroyo. “ Documental Eugenio M. de Hostos” http:// YouTube.

November 27, 2014. You Tube. Lic. “Hostos el Sembrador” Documental http:// You Tube. December 12, 2014.

Adriana, Maria Arpini. Eugenio M. de Hostos, un hacedor de libertades. Primera Editorial Mendoza. P. 102-110. January 3,2002 Aragunde, Rafael. Aquiles, Vivian. Eugenio M. de Hostos, Un Debate actual en torno a sus ideas pedagógicas. Chapter 4. P. 109-115