Introduction: Life of Carl Stumpf Carl Stumpf, born in 1848 in Germany, was a philosopher, psychologist, and musicologist who was an influencer for further contribution to what would be later known as Gestalt Psychology. He started his research in auditory perception and further pursued his research on the psychology of music. His interest in the psychology of music started early in his life with a love for music, specifically, the violin he played during his childhood years. He later went to university at University of Würzburg, which led him to study psychology and philosophy while furthering his education at Wurzburg to get his doctorate. Stumpf left a legacy after leaving Wurzburg to become a professor at the University of Prague and the University of Berlin. While being a professor, he was understanding and teaching students how individuals organize independent sensory information, such as mental acts, into a larger whole of the mind. His legacy continued on through the students he taught. These students would further come to the development of Gestalt psychology as it is today. Future Impacts on Psychology: Carl Stumpf Carl Stumpf made contributions to psychology through his influences in the development in his own research, as well as through the input on Gestalt psychology that his students would introduce. During his time, he gave influence to his own research on auditory perception and the psychology of music. Gestalt psychology was later developed into the emphasization of the importance of studying the mind as a whole. Before, it was believed that it should be broken down into individual elements. This would become a movement in psychology as it was not focused on the whole mind. In relation to auditory perception and the psychology of music, Stumpf had always loved music. This forwarded into the exploration of how someone can perceive and organize an auditory stimulus and then process it into feelings of sensation and perception. Stumpf’s research also investigated the aspect of musical experiences. He focused on musical tones and the emotional impact that music has on a person. While he studied psychology and philosophy, his love for music gave further insight into the exploration of the emotional aspects that music can be understood. Introduction of Franz Brentano In the online article, it was found that there were numerous amounts of connections that Brentano conducted that led to the theory of intentionality and the study of mental acts that now stands as then foundation of descriptive psychology (Huemer, 2019). By laying down the groundwork needed for descriptive psychology, which would be an influence in shaping the study of the mind, Brentano helped bridge the gaps between philosophy and psychology. In the textbook, the study of acts is discussed (Schultz &amp; Schultz, 2016). While it did not go into much depth, he argued that psychology should study the specific context of conscious experience. However, this was engaged more in the article on how a thought is always directed at an object, which further adds an emotion towards the cause of that emotion. This causes a greater relationship between the mind and the objects the mind sees. Brentano&#039;s theory supports the idea of the unity of consciousness. In section 3 of the online research article, it was clear that Brentano suggested that mental acts are not isolated, however, they are part of a single stream of consciousness, thus contributing to the togetherness of our conscious experiences (Huemer, 2019).

Influences of Brentano on Stumpf Carl Stumpf was Brentano’s influence during his time at the University of Wurzburg. Carl Stumpf got interested in philosophy and science which furthered his education from a bachelors at the University of Gottingen in 1868 to getting his doctorate under instructors such as Brentano (Schultz &amp; Schultz, 2016). Stumpf was influenced by Brentano’s philosophical ideas correlating to psychology, intentional mental acts, and consciousness. Studying under Brentano gave Stumpf a large development in his own psychological and philosophical work, the psychology of music. One of the largest influences Brentano had on Stumpf was the descriptive psychology work. Brentano argued that metaphysics was not to be relied on, but it was to focus on closely describing and analyzing mental phenomenas. This led Stumpf to use Brentano’s approach and focus on the qualities of mental experiences. This would help him in his descriptive psychology and intentionality in his study of the psychology of music. In the psychology of music, one does not just analyze the idea of music, but analyzes the qualities, emotions, and engagement with the musical experience one has. Conclusion: Stumpf’s Intellectual Legacy In conclusion, Carl Stumpt left an impact on psychology through his involvement in psychology music and later influences on Gestalt psychology. With his mentor and influence, Franz Brentano, he was able to learn and apply knowledge in the study of mental acts, focusing on the study of the mind as a whole rather than individual segments. Stumpf’s analysis of musical experiences went the relevance of Brentano’s concepts. They fused both philosophy and psychology, making a bridge between the two. The lasting impact the two had makes us learn more about our understanding of intricate relationships between consciousness and the objects of perception, in Stumpf’s case, music. This was able to bring further research to students who were taught by Brentano and Stumpf’s into the deep understanding of the human mind.