Laurent Ferrier is a true independent manufacture. It is headed by Laurent Ferrier himself, who worked at Patek Philippe for 40 years, finishing as their creative director. Beyond his watchmaking pedigree, Ferrier is also notable for having raced at the 24 Hours of Le Mans, where he came third in 1979, coming behind none other than Paul Newman. Located in the village of Vernier in Switzerland, his small workshop resides in a converted single-family home, where each watch is hand-assembled by a single watchmaker.

As opposed to the more classic iterations of this piece, the dial found on this Laurent Ferrier Micro-Rotor is constructed from mother-of-pearl, a mesmerising material that creates an iridescent sheen that makes this dial incredibly attractive. With this particular example, black mother of pearl is used, which showcases a blend of purple, blue, and green. Additionally, the watch still retains typical features of the original Galet Micro-Rotor, including the Breguet numerals and Assegai-spear shaped hands for the dial, beside the rounded bezel and onion-shaped crown.

Powered by Laurent Ferrier’s self-winding calibre LF 229.01, it is interesting to note that where haute-horology often favours a manual-winding movement, (uninterrupted by a rotor), Laurent Ferrier decided that contemporary needs, called for an automatic movement. The solution was the incorporation of a micro-rotor as a winding mechanism, allowing the architecture of the movement to be shown completely. The fan-shaped rotor is made of solid gold and is suspended by a large bridge, together, intended to create the impression of a bird standing on one foot. Furthermore, it uses a pawl, allowing it to wind in a unidirectional manner, adding efficiency and reliability.

The finishing of the movement is a major focus for the Galet Micro-Rotor, with contrasts established between the perlaged backdrop and the thick circular grained Geneva Stripes on the bridges. When viewed under a loupe, the incredibly precise finishing of the interior angles are shown, which are uniformly achieved through the use of a burin, and the handwork of the manufacture's skilled craftsmen.