From playing an honest cop in Bambai Meri Jaan to a baddie in Farzi alongside Shahid Kapoor, Kay Kay Menon has succeeded in pulling off challenging roles with ease. The 56-year-old actor has also been receiving high praise for his stellar act in Bambai Meri Jaan.

We have curated a list of Menon’s top-rated shows with a 7+ IMDb rating that are available on Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, JioCinema, and more, for you to enjoy at home. These shows are highly engaging and entertaining, and they definitely deserve your attention.

Bambai Meri Jaan to Farzi, 6 top-rated shows with 7+ ratings on IMDb that you must watch if you like Kay Kay Menon’s performances

1. Special OPS – Disney+ Hotstar

IMDb rating: 8.6

Created and directed by Neeraj Pandey, Special OPS is a highly engaging espionage thriller that focuses on Himmat Singh and his team who embark on a dangerous mission to track down the mastermind of the terror attacks that took place in India. The ensemble cast of the series features Kay Kay Menon, Karan Tacker, Vipul Gupta, Saiyami Kher, Meher Vij, and Gautami Kapoor among others.

2. Farzi – Amazon Prime Video

IMDb rating: 8.4

Shahid Kapoor made his digital debut earlier this year with famed director-duo Raj & DK’s edge-of-the-seat crime thriller, Farzi. The series delves into the life of a small-time artist who gets dragged into the high-stakes world of counterfeiting. But with an honest cop willing to go to any extent to stop him, will he get caught or climb the ladder of success? The series also features Raashi Khanna, Kay Kay Menon, and Vijay Sethupathi in key roles.

3. Special Ops 1.5: The Himmat Story – Disney+ Hotstar

IMDb rating: 8.3

The success of Special OPS (2020) motivated the makers to return with another installment, titled Special Ops 1.5: The Himmat Story. Director Neeraj Pandey takes the story beyond India to Sri Lanka, Dhaka, London, and Kyiv as the agency recalls Himmat Singh back from suspension to track down a rogue agent. He teams up with a former acquaintance to solve the case. The cast includes Kay Kay Menon, Aftab Shivdasani, Vinay Pathak, Gautami Kapoor, and Parmeet Sethi, among others.

4. Bambai Meri Jaan – Amazon Prime Video

IMDb rating: 7.2

Amazon Prime Video’s new offering Bambai Meri Jaan has received a good response from both the audience and critics. Led by Kay Kay Menon and Avinash Tiwary, the newly released period crime thriller delves into the life of a gangster, as seen through the eyes of his father, a former police officer known for his honesty and dedication. The ensemble cast of Bambai Meri Jaan also features Amyra Dastur, Kritika Kamra, Nivedita Bhattacharya, and others.

5. Ray – Netflix

IMDb rating: 7.1

After delivering a remarkable performance in Special OPS, Bambai Meri Jaan star Kay Kay Menon joined forces with Manoj Bajpayee, Ali Fazal, Radhika Madan, and Harsh Varrdhan Kapoor, for Netflix’s anthology series, Ray. The drama encompasses a plethora of genres including psychological thriller, satire, and more. Another excellent option to binge online if you are a fan of Menon’s performances.

6. The Great Indian Dysfunctional Family – JioCinema

IMDb rating: 7

The Great Indian Dysfunctional Family is a family drama that explores the estranged relationships between two brothers named Samar and Vikram Ranaut. Created by Dipika Bajpai, the story revolves around the Ranaut family whose lives take an unexpected turn when Samar comes back home with his wife. The plot unfolds with a series of emotional outbursts and heartbreaks. Kay Kay Menon and Barun Sobti play the lead roles in this emotional family drama.