By Anzhu Trivedi | 04-Sep-2023

Bambai Meri Jaan Trailer: Gangster Avinash Tiwary gangster and cop Kay Kay Menon take us through Mumbai's 1970 underworld

Prime Video today unveiled the trailer of its upcoming fiction crime thriller, Amazon Original series Bambai Meri Jaan. Produced by Excel Media and Entertainment’s Ritesh Sidhwani, Kassim Jagmagia and Farhan.....

By Rahul Raut | 31-Mar-2023

PeepingMoon Exclusive: Kay Kay Menon as Sherlock Holmes and Ranvir Shorey as Dr. Watson in BBC Studios India's Sherlock adaptation

BBC Studios India has primarily been focusing on the local adaptations of its globally diverse content slate. The production company, which is a part of the International Productions and Formats.....

By Vandana Srivastawa | 01-Mar-2023

Shahid Kapoor reveals he hated the word ‘cute’, says 'Why would you say that to anybody?’

Shahid Kapoor recently made his OTT debut with Prime Video’s web series Farzi which is directed by director duo Raj Nidimoru and Krishna DK. The web series has been well-received.....

By Ms. Moon | 13-Jan-2023

Farzi trailer: Shahid Kapoor plays a con artist par excellence as he literally ‘makes money’ through counterfeiting; Vijay Sethupathi’s one-liners steals the show

Prime Video today launched the trailer of their upcoming Indian Amazon Original Series - Farzi. The crime drama marks the digital debut of superstar Shahid Kapoor and the ‘Makkal Selvan’,.....

By Ms. Moon | 11-Jan-2023

Farzi: Makers of Shahid Kapoor, Vijay Sethupathi and Raashii Khanna’s unveil ‘spoof’ trailer ahead of actual launch; ‘real’ trailer to release on Jan 13

Playing on the title of the new series called Farzi, Prime Video today dropped a 'Farzi' trailer itself, announcing the real trailer and making fans curious about the show. In.....

By Mr. Moon | 09-Jan-2023

Shahid Kapoor, Vijay Sethupathi, Raashii Khanna and Kay Kay Menon are set to blur the lines between Asli and Farzi in Raj & DK's show; motion poster out!

With the unveiling of Shahid Kapoor and Vijay Sethupathi’s look from the upcoming Amazon Original Farzi, Prime Video has created much anticipation among the viewers. Adding to the excitement, the.....

By Ms. Moon | 05-Jan-2023

Farzi: Vijay Sethupathi out to uncover the ‘asli behind the naqli’ as Shahid Kapoor goes all out to con his way starting Feb 10; first look posters revealed

Kickstarting the New Year on a big note, Prime Video today announced that its highly anticipated Original, Farzi, will premiere on February 10 in India and in more than 240.....

By Rahul Raut | 07-Nov-2022

PeepingMoon Exclusive: Yash Raj Films' debut web series The Railway Men postponed to 2023 due to remaining VFX work

On December 2, 2021, Yash Raj Films announced its foray into the OTT sphere with The Railway Men. The one-season limited series about the human spirit’s perseverance in the face.....

By Vandana Srivastawa | 03-May-2022

Director-duo Raj & DK share pic with Manoj Bajpayee and Vijay Sethupathi, fans request ‘biggest crossover ever’ in The Family Man 3

Director duo Raj & DK, Raj Nidimoru and Krishna DK created a winner with Manoj Bajpayee starrer series The Family Man that earned them several fans as well. Now, with.....

By Vandana Srivastawa | 28-Apr-2022

Amazon Prime Video slate: Shahid Kapoor’s Raj and DK series titled Farzi; Naga Chaitanya to make OTT debut with Dhootha; first looks out

Amazon Prime Video, in a special event held at Mumbai today unveiled its slate for the upcoming year with 40 new titles that includes several highly-anticipated shows and films. The.....

By Tanmayi Savadi | 28-Dec-2021

PeepingMoon 2021: Manoj Bajpayee in The Family Man 2, Sidharth Shukla in Broken But Beautiful 3 to Mohit Raina in Mumbai Diaries 26/11, actors who charmed audience with their performances in OTT shows

Web shows have rightfully taken over the position once held by saas-bahu dramas. Now, in most Indian households, families sit down together to binge-watch series either on laptops, phones.....

By Tanmayi Savadi | 02-Dec-2021

R Madhavan, Kay Kay Menon, Divyenndu and Babil Khan to headline YRF's first web show The Railway Men based on 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy

Keeping up with the vogue, Aditya Chopra has forayed into digital space with the launch of Yash Raj Films' OTT platform. The first web show to stream on the platform.....

By Vandana Srivastawa | 12-Nov-2021

Special Ops 1.5 The Himmat Story review: Kay Kay Menon and Aftab Shivdasani deliver a thrilling espionage drama with a compelling origin story of the protagonist

Show: Special Ops 1.5 The Himmat Story

Cast: Kay Kay Menon, Aftab Shivdasani, Gautami Kapoor, Parmeet Sethi, Vinay Pathak, Kali Prasad Mukherjee, Vijay Vikram Singh, Adil Khan

Director: Shivam Nair

Creator: Neeraj.....

By Rashita Sahni | 28-Oct-2021

'Today's generation didn't know most of us, we had kind of faded away,' says Kay Kay Menon and Aftab Shivdasani ahead of their show Special Ops 1.5's premiere

Kay Kay Menon & Aftab Shivdasani discuss their upcoming show Special Ops 1.5, the success of its first season, reaching a wider audience through the webspace, turning the show into.....