Image courtesy of Brian Lauer on Flickr

This week “New York City’s biggest block party” is returning to a 28-block stretch of Fifth Avenue for the 45th year. During the Museum Mile Festival, attendees can walk along Fifth Avenue between 82nd Street and 110th Street and visit eight of the city’s finest institutions for free. Participating museums include the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, the Museum of the City of New York, the Jewish Museum, Neue Galerie New York, El Museo del Barrio, the Africa Center, and Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum. The iconic thoroughfare will close to cars during the festival, which takes place on June 13 from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m., allowing the museums to host art activities, musical performances, and other attractions outdoors.

Additional events and programs will take place at the Asia Society, the AKC Museum of the Dog, the New York Academy of Medicine, and the People’s Bus. Advanced registration is not required.

Each museum is hosting special events specific to the festival, including special exhibitions within their galleries or fun events outside on Fifth Avenue. The Met will host a silent dance party, art-making, and other activities throughout the night, as well as a live musical performance by Mariachi Real de México to end the evening.

The Nueu Galerie will present an outdoor pop-up featuring activities and information about the museum’s expansive collection of early 20th-century Austrian and German art and design and information about its historic building which is set to reopen in September.

The Guggenheim invites attendees to view its five current exhibitions, “Gego: Measuring Infinity, Sarah Sze: Timelapse, Young Picasso in Paris, A Year with Children 2023,” and the Thannhauser Collection. They will also be hosting outdoor arts and crafts activities using sustainable materials.

Cooper Hewitt will present “Give Me a Sign: The Language of Symbols,” the museum’s latest exhibition that analyzes the rich histories behind the symbols that “instruct, protect, entertain, empower and connect people.” The exhibition “Designing Peace” will also be on view, which explores the important role design plays in the pursuit of peace.

The Jewish Museum will host an outdoor musical performance by the Dingonek Street Band and an arts and crafts activity, as well as the exhibitions “The Sassoons” and “After ‘The Wild’: Contemporary Art from The Barnett and Annalee Newman Foundation Collection.”

The Museum of the City of New York will give attendees a first look at its new exhibition “This is New York: 100 Years of the City in Art and Pop Culture.”

El Museo Del Barrio will present “Something Beautiful: Reframing La Colección,” an ambitious presentation of the museum’s vast collection of Latin American art and artifacts. The celebration will also include a performance by Afro Dominicano and music by DJ Jomero.

The Africa Center will host a live performance by the West African band Kakande, along with art workshops led by illustrators from the diaspora. Attendees will get a first look at the “Black Future Newsstand,” an interactive installation created by the Black Thought Project and Media 2070.

The festival will kick off with an opening ceremony and special performance from the Tony-nominated Broadway show “New York, New York” at the Museum of the City of New York at 5:30 p.m.

Get Insider Updates with Our Newsletter!

Email(Required)

By providing your email address, you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You can unsubscribe at any time.

600,000+ balloons take over Park Avenue Armory

By Aaron Ginsburg

Over 600,000 vibrantly colored balloons have taken over the Upper East Side's Park Avenue Armory as part of a new pop-up art installation. The family-friendly "Balloon Story" exhibit has "balloonified" the armory, featuring intricate sculptures of animals, iconic landmarks like the Statue of Liberty, and other imaginative designs set against balloon-filled landscapes. On view through Saturday, August 24, the exhibit is open daily from 10 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday, and from 10 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. on Fridays through Sundays.

find out more

Shakespeare in the Park returns to new Delacorte Theater next summer with star-studded cast

By Aaron Ginsburg

Shakespeare in the Park's much-anticipated return to the revitalized Delacorte Theater will feature a star-studded cast. The Public Theater on Thursday announced the lineup for next year's free Shakespeare in the Park program, which will reopen with a production of the classic comedy "Twelfth Night" featuring stars including Peter Dinklage, Jesse Tyler Ferguson, Lupita Nyong'o, and Sandra Oh. Shakespeare in the Park is set to return to its home in Central Park in August 2025.

find out more

New York City’s biggest Bastille Day bash celebrates ahead of the Paris Olympics

By Michelle Cohen

This Sunday, the biggest event celebrating Bastille Day outside France hits Madison Avenue. To reflect the world's excitement for the 2024 Paris Olympics, the event, which is expected to draw over 25,000 visitors, will bring an Olympics theme to L’Alliance New York’s annual cultural bonanza of French culture, entertainment, fashion, food, and more.

allons-Y!

Museum Mile Festival is back, offering free admission at NYC’s best museums

By Aaron Ginsburg

The Museum Mile Festival, aka "New York City's biggest block party," returns to Fifth Avenue for its 46th year. As part of the festival, guests can walk along Fifth Avenue between 82nd Street and 110th Street and visit eight world-class museums for free. Participating institutions include the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Neue Galerie New York, Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum, the Jewish Museum, Museum of the City of New York, El Museo del Barrio, and the Africa Center. The festival takes place on Tuesday, June 18 from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m., with the street closed off to vehicles to allow for live performances, art-making activities, and more.

find out more

The Met’s rooftop installation features sculptures inspired by children’s desktop doodles

By Aaron Ginsburg

A sprawling series of sculptures inspired by the doodles and drawings of school children have been installed at The Metropolitan Museum of Art's rooftop, as part of the annual Roof Garden commission. Kosovar artist Petrit Halilaj this week unveiled his work "Abetare," an exhibition of three-dimensional metal sculptures depicting drawings he found on classroom desks at his former school in Kosovo, as well as in Albania and countries from the former Yugoslavia. While appearing whimsical, the sculptures provide a look at the imagination of children whose lives were upended by war. The installation is on view at the Iris and B. Gerald Cantor Roof Garden through October 27.

see more

Kips Bay Decorator Show House New York announces 2024 designers

By Michelle Cohen

The Kips Bay Decorator Show House New York has just announced the 24 top designers and architects who will be helping to transform a historic Upper East Side townhouse at 125 East 65th Street. The annual Show House, a fundraiser for the Kips Bay Boys & Girls Club, is one of the city's favorite design events, just ahead of spring's bounty of design and art offerings. The 2024 Show House will open to the public on Thursday, May 2nd. Read on for this year's participants and more information.

Find out more