2. INTRODUCTION  Museum Mile is the name for a section of Fifth Avenue in Manhattan in the city of New York, in the United States, running from 82nd to 105th streets on the Upper East Side in a neighborhood known as Carnegie Hill.  The Museum Mile contains one of the densest displays of culture in the world

3. Museums on the mile The museums on the mile are:  Museum for African Art  El Museo del Barrio  Museum of the City of New York  The Jewish Museum  Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum, Smithsonian Institution  National Academy Museum  Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum  Neue Galerie New York  Goethe-Institut  The Metropolitan Museum of Art  Museum Mile Festival

4.  Metropolitan Museum: The most important place along New York Museum Mile. People saiy that they enjoy this museum. They say is interesting.  Neue Gallery: The building housing Neue Gallery New York is located at 1048 Fifth Avenue at 86th Street.  Museum Solomon: The Guggenheim Museum, located on a selection of Fifth Avenue known as Museum Mile, is housed in one of the most unique buildings in New York City.  Copper-Hewitt, National Design: Is located on Museum Mile, at the corner of 91st Street and Fifth Avenue in New York City.  Museum Judío of New York: Located along New York´s Museum Mile, this has been the home of the Museum since 1947. Sited on the northerly end of the renowned Museum Mile.  Museum of the City of New York: The Museum is located at the top of Museum Mile on Fifth Avenue and 103rd Street.  Museum of the Barrio: A dynamic, artistic, cultural and community gathering place.

5. The Museum Mile is located in the 5th avenue of New York. The Metropolitan museum of art, it is also called MET. The Museum Guggenheim. This museum offers hundreds of events each month. The main hall of This is the museum the museum MOMA. Guggenheim.

6. Here you can see some works of art of the museum MOMA. The museum MOMA is of modern art like you can see in the picture. This is the main hall of theMetropolitan museum.