People shoot the messenger because it feels good, and also because the messenger is not neutral. The messenger is complicit with the bad news; he has agreed to convey it and tacitly endorses the system of which it is a byproduct. Emotionally, the messengers in this interesting American indie by Oren Moverman get shot at point-blank range every day. But they shoot first. Ben Foster plays Staff Sergeant Will Montgomery, a decorated soldier recovering from injuries sustained in Iraq. With three months to go before his enlistment period ends and he returns to civilian life, Montgomery is redeployed to the casualty notification team under the formidable command of Captain Tony Stone, played by Woody Harrelson: they will be a two-man outfit whose job is to show up in uniform at the houses of next of kin and inform them that their sons and husbands and wives and daughters have been killed on active service.

Captain Stone is a recovering alcoholic, secretly disgusted by the strain and even the indignity of a job with all the stress and trauma of combat, but without the macho excitement. He tries to school Will in the ways of maintaining emotional distance from the grieving relatives, tries sharing with him his profound respect for the rules and regulations of military life and subtly tries to persuade him to stay in the army after his time is up. But Will isn't sure and begins an inappropriate friendship with one of the next of kin, played by Samantha Morton.

Perhaps inevitably, the best part of the movie is its opening act, which simply lays out what the day-to-day job being a harbinger of doom actually involves. Tersely, Stone tells Will how to handle it with the least emotional involvement possible. He has brusque instructions on the differences between handling grieving men and grieving women, and a very funny line about why you must knock on the door and never use the doorbell. They have strict instructions to deliver the news to the designated next of kin and no one else, so Moverman cleverly shows how their arrival, as well as triggering unwatchable grief, can open up a domestic can of worms.

He offers the audience a neat twist on the classic old-hand-plus-rookie routine, and also makes his casualty notification team look a little like John Travolta and Samuel L Jackson in Tarantino's Pulp Fiction. Samantha Morton, as Olivia, beginning a painful new friendship with Will, gives an excellent performance. However, as the film continues, some familiar storylines begin to unfold: the tough and irreverent cynicism promised in the first act begins to be replaced by something rather sentimental: male bonding, romance, a conviction that the US army is something pretty great. Still, an intelligent and well-acted film which deserves its outing here.