future films

Messenger Films has a current slate of five beautiful and hopeful films for a global audience. Over the next 10 - 12 years, beginning in 2025, we plan to produce five feature-length films intended to reach “spiritual seekers” around the world.

Click below to read capsule summaries for each of the films.

Each of these new films uses the language of cinema to engage seekers in a non-judgmental way, pointing them to God’s truth by means of that most enduring and effective of teachers—the poignant and well-crafted story.

Jesus often taught through parables, leaving his hearers to ponder the meaning of the tale. Our films also stimulate a process of self-examination by encouraging seekers to continue their quest for truth and meaning in life.

Or, as the Bible puts it: “To seek God while He may be found.”

The Cost

On average, each of the above-mentioned films carries a budget of $5 million dollars, amounting to a total campaign raise of $25 million dollars.

Means of Financing

In reliance on God’s provision, Messenger Films will seek individual donations and foundation grants to make up the total amount required. Messenger Films is a 501(c)(3) corporation (EIN 95-4217185) and contributions are tax-deductible.

Find Out More

Track Record

Messenger Films was founded in 1988 by Cristóbal Krusen for the purpose of creating gospel-themed films contextualized for specific cultures and people groups around the world. More than thirty years later, over a billion people have seen a Messenger Films production with millions having professed a decision to follow Christ. Our films have been most widely viewed in countries of Latin America, the Middle East, Africa and Asia.

Previous films have included the Spanish-language classics Ropa Nueva para Felipe (New Clothes for Felipe) and ¿Con Quién Te Vas? (With Whom Will You Go?). Other highly influential films produced by Messenger Films include Final Solution, More Than Dreams, Undaunted, Sabina K. and Let Me Have My Son.