The labor market in Poland has been undergoing significant changes in recent years. The country is in need of skilled workers to expand and develop its economy. This has created advantages for foreign workers.

If you want to work in Poland as a highly skilled worker, you need to apply for an EU Blue Card. The EU Blue Card is a type of residence permit that will allow you to live and work in Poland for the duration of your employment contract.

Before applying for an EU Blue Card, check to see if you need a visa to enter the territory of Poland first. If you come from a country with a visa requirement, you need to get a type D visa (long-stay) before starting the application process.

Who Is Eligible for an EU Blue Card in Poland?

To be eligible for an EU Blue Card in Poland, you must meet the following conditions:

You must have a valid work contract or binding job offer for a profession that requires high qualifications, with a duration of at least 1 year (12 months).

You must have completed a study course at a university with a duration of three years.

Your gross salary must meet the salary threshold in Poland.

You meet the national legal requirements of Poland. (regulated professions)

You meet the relevant higher professional qualifications. (unregulated professions)

You do not pose a security threat to public order or the national security of Poland.

What Is the Minimum Salary Threshold for an EU Blue Card in Poland?

The gross annual salary from the monthly or annual salary in the work contract or binding job offer must be at least equal to the salary threshold defined by Poland. The minimum threshold changes every year. The minimum salary threshold for 2022 in Poland is around 41 395 PLN.

What Professions Are Available With an EU Blue Card for Poland?

With an EU Blue Card for Poland, you can be employed in the following professions:

IT specialist

Driver (bus drivers, LGV drivers, tractor unit drivers).

Programmer

Financial analyst

Healthcare:

Doctor

Nurse

Midwife

Physiotherapist

Massage therapist

Carer

Engineer

Technician

Developer (front-end developer and back-end developer)

Marketing

Business

Finance:

Accountant

Bookkeeper

Economist

HR

Logistic specialist

Construction

Recruiter

Other

How to Apply for an EU Blue Card in Poland?

Before starting the application procedure for obtaining an EU Blue Card, there are a few steps that both you and your employer need to complete.

The employer applies for a work permit to the Voivode (Polish Province Governor). Then, a labor market test will be conducted to show that there is no suitable qualified settled worker to fill the job position. Once it is stated that there is no unemployed worker with the necessary qualifications for the job, the employer can proceed to recruit you.

You can apply for an EU Blue Card after receiving a work permit.

The application procedure for an EU Blue Card in Poland is as follows:

Visit the Polish embassy or consulate in your home country or your nearest Voivode.

Submit the EU Blue Card application form and documents. (see below)

Receive the EU Blue Card.

Travel to Poland.

What Documents Should I Submit for an EU Blue Card in Poland?

When applying for an EU Blue Card in Poland, you must submit the basic documents for a temporary residence permit together with the additional documents required for an EU Blue Card.

The documents required to apply for an EU Blue Card in Poland are listed below:

Two copies of the application for a temporary residence permit.

A valid travel document issued within the last ten years, together with two photocopies of all pages with annotations.

Four photographs in line with Poland visa photo requirements. Submit four recently taken photos of yourself in accordance with the requirements of Poland.

Proof of paid fee.

Employment contract. The contract must be valid for at least 1 year.

Proof of professional experience. Provide documents such as a university diploma with a translation into Polish.

Information from the competent authorities for your main place of work. (if required)

Health insurance. Documents confirming you have health insurance or coverage by the insurer in the Polish territory (e.g., printouts from ZUS – ZUS RCA for the past 3 months together with information about sending and confirmation).

Proof of accommodation. Documents confirming you have a place of residence in the territory of the Republic of Poland, such as:

Rental contract.

Check-in confirmation.

Hotel reservation.

*The document checklist can differ depending on the worker’s situation and the office where the application for an EU Blue Card is submitted. As such, additional documents might be required.

What Is the Duration of a Blue Card for Poland?

An EU Blue Card is granted for a period of three years. If the employment contract is valid for a shorter period, the EU Blue Card is issued for the same duration plus another three months, but not longer than three years.

What Is the Cost of an EU Blue Card for Poland?

The fees for a Polish EU Blue Card are presented below:

Initial Blue Card €111 Renewal of the Blue Card €119 Replacement of Blue Card €12

What Is the Processing Time for a Polish EU Blue Card?

Polish authorities must reach a decision on your EU Blue Card application within 30 days of receiving your application. The processing time might take longer (up to 60 days) on complicated cases.

What Are the Benefits of the EU Blue Card for Poland?

The EU Blue Card for Poland entitles you to the following benefits:

Paid leaves.

Two rest days a week (Saturday and Sunday).

13 public holidays. If a holiday falls on a rest day, you are entitled to an extra paid day off on top of the annual leave.

20 days of annual leave if the worker has been employed for less than ten years and 26 days if the worker has been employed for at least ten years.

Maternity leave depends on the number of children you give birth to. For example, 20 weeks for one child, 31 for twins, 33 for triplets, 35 weeks for quadruplets, and 37 weeks for quintuplets or more.

8 weeks of parental leave for both parents.

Sickness leave for the first 33 days. 14 days if the worker is over the age of 50.

Study leave varies in length. For example, 6 days for extramural exams, 6 days for professional qualification confirmation, and 21 days for diploma dissertations and examinations.

Free movement to all EU member states and within the Polish territory.

Your family members can accompany you to Poland.

Healthcare insurance.

Access to education and vocational training.

Access to public goods and services.

Working hours.

Regular working hours: The regular working time must not exceed 8 hours per day or an average of 40 hours per week (five days).

Overtime: Any work performed in excess of the standard hours is considered overtime work. In addition to the regular remuneration, overtime work at night, on Sundays, and on public holidays is compensated with a bonus.

Equal treatment to Polish nationals and no discrimination in the workplace.

Can I Change My Employer or Position While Working on a Blue Card in Poland?

Holders of an EU Blue Card working in a profession that requires high qualifications during the first two years of their stay in Poland are not allowed to work for another employer other than the one specified in their permit or change the job position for which they received an EU Blue Card.

Can My Family Accompany Me in Poland With an EU Blue Card?

As a holder of the EU Blue Card, you are entitled to bring your family members (spouse and children under the age of 18) with you to Poland if you have the necessary financial support and accommodation place for them. Your family members will be beneficiaries of the same rights and benefits as you.

Am I Allowed to Work in Another Country With a Blue Card Issued in Poland?

The EU Blue Card issued by Poland is valid for Poland only. Therefore, it cannot be used for employment purposes outside the Polish territory. However, an EU Blue Card allows you to travel to other member states of the EU but not to participate in gainful activities.

Can My Polish EU Blue Card Get Cancelled?

Yes, an EU Blue Card can be canceled if you do not comply with the restrictions on access to the labor market. For example, if during the first two years of your stay in Poland on a Blue Card, you changed employers, your position, or your remuneration has been reduced, etc.