Am I eligible to apply for an EU Blue Card?

To apply for an EU Blue Card, the applicant must:

have a valid work contract for highly qualified employment with a duration of at least 1 year;

meet the minimum salary threshold in the Member State concerned (see below);

for regulated professions: present documents proving that the national legal requirements are met;

for unregulated professions: present documents proving that the relevant higher professional qualifications are met (for more information about higher professional qualifications, see the FAQ section);

present a valid travel document;

present a proof of sickness insurance (or a proof of having applied for it).

In addition, the applicant must not pose a threat to public policy in the view of the Member State.

How much do I have to earn to qualify for an EU Blue Card?

The amount of minimum remuneration required for the purposes of granting the permit is PLN 9519,23 gross monthly.

Are there exceptions to the minimum salary requirement?

N/A.

Will EU citizens' applications be prioritised over mine?

Some Member States apply a Labour Market Test (LMT). This is a mechanism that aims to ensure that migrant workers are only admitted after employers have unsuccessfully searched for national workers, EU citizens (in EU Member states, this also means EEA workers) or legally residing third-country nationals with access to the labour market according to national legislation (for more information see the FAQ section).

Poland applies a labour market test.

How long will my EU Blue Card be valid?

The standard period of validity in Poland is: three years.

Specific rules: in Poland, the EU Blue Card is issued for the period of the employment contract plus three months but no longer than three years.

How much will it cost?

Initial EU Blue Card fee: 123 EUR.

Renewal: 123 EUR.

Fee for express issuance: N/A.

How long will it take to get my EU Blue Card?

National law foresees that the maximum processing time for adopting a decision on the application for an EU Blue Card in Poland is 60 days from submission of complete application.

Polish Migrant website

More information on migrating to Poland