IN 1935, Sheffield building tycoon Charles Boot, son of the famous chemist, paid a modest £35,000 at auction for one of the finest houses in south-east England. Most people would have seen Heatherden Hall - with its 39 bedrooms, 34-ft drawing-room and 158-acre grounds - as a magnificent family home, to be used for Gatsby-esque entertaining and to be passed down to successive, lucky generations.

But not Boot. A film enthusiast, he wanted to build a studio to rival Los Angeles' finest. Joining forces with movie mogul J Arthur Rank, he converted the house and grounds into Pinewood - and neither he, Rank, nor the British film industry ever looked back.

In the 65 years since, the reassuring words "Made at Pinewood Studios, London, England" have graced the closing credits for the best part of 1,000 films (some of which are being screened in a special season at the Barbican from next week), as well as those of many TV programmes.

Given the studios' location, it is perhaps not surprising that, for many cinema-goers, it is three British series - Bond, Doctor and Carry On films - that retain the strongest association with Pinewood. And yet, even the keenest buff might be astonished by the number of quintessentially "American" pictures made there: all four Superman movies, Aliens and Alien 3, Batman, Mission: Impossible, The Phantom Menace and dozens more. The reasons are simple, explains Michael Grade - who, with Ivan Dunleavy, bought the studios from Rank last year for £62 million.

"Americans like making movies in the UK," says the former Channel 4 chief executive, "because of the fabulous skill base that we have. The myriad craft skills that you need to create a movie are all abundant and of the highest quality in the UK."

One charming quirk of Pinewood's history is the number of films in which the studio itself has appeared - not just its vast sets, such as the 007 stage, with its 48,000 sq ft indoor tank that takes a week to fill - but the actual house and grounds. The Titanic's boiler-room in A Night to Remember was Pinewood's power house; the studios' ornamental garden stood in as the Secret Garden in Agnieszka Holland's 1993 film of the children's classic; and, when hoodlums pursued Bond's DB5 around the grounds of Goldfinger's Swiss lair, they were actually speeding between Pinewood's rather less glamorous A and E stages.

It might be tempting to see this rich, varied history as another potential carrot to lure American film-makers. But Grade has a final, more mundane, explanation for the studios' transatlantic appeal. "You don't have a problem persuading major stars to come to London," he says. "They can live in style, they've got privacy, they've got whatever they need. The morale on a picture is terribly important, and if the stars are happy and the director's happy, by and large everybody's happy."

'A Celebration of Pinewood Studios' is at the Barbican (020 7638 8891) from Thursday until July 1. Gareth Owen's and Brian Burford's history of the studios, 'The Pinewood Story', is published by Reynolds & Hearn

Carry on spying

Nearly all 19 of the Eon-produced Bond movies were made at Pinewood (the exceptions being 1989's Licence to Kill and 1995's GoldenEye). In From Russia With Love (Terence Young, 1963), every scene set on SPECTRE Island - such as the meeting (above) between Morzeny (Walter Gotell) and Rosa Klebb (Lotte Lenya), and the opening "teaser", in which Sean Connery's Bond is apparently garrotted by Robert Shaw's assassin - was shot in Pinewood's formal gardens.

Pinewood's mansion (visible in the background) acted as SPECTRE headquarters, and the training camp was set up near the house, while the gipsy-camp sequences saw Pinewood's paddock stand in for the outskirts of Istanbul.

Like the chronicles of 007, the Carry On series has a rich association with Pinewood. Every Carry On was shot there, with almost every inch of the studio's exteriors gaining a bit-part at some time. Car Park One was was Sid James's taxi yard in Cabby (1963); the timber yard was WC Boggs's lavatory factory in At Your Convenience (1971); and, in Up the Khyber (1968), the former SPECTRE base even featured as the Indian High Commission.

Similarly, when Barbara Windsor accidentally bared (nearly) all in Carry On Camping (1969), she did so in Pinewood's back-lot (left). The film was set in summer, but shot in October, and the combination of autumnal rain and heavy equipment rapidly reduced the ground to mud. So, in a desperate bid for seasonal verdancy, director Gerald Thomas had the back-lot sprayed green. It was an inspired decision: the film came off perfectly, and became one of the best-loved Carry Ons, while the bra-less Babs remains one of the most enduring images in British cinema.