Don’t confuse Paula Cole with the characters in her hit songs. She’s not pining at home for her John Wayne, wondering where have all the cowboys gone. And she’s definitely not waiting for our lives to be over in Dawson’s Creek. The 42-year-old, Grammy-award-winning singer and songwriter loves her life. She’s a happy single mother. She learning to love living in her hometown of Rockport, again after spending years in Los Angeles and New York. She enjoys playing live. (She’ll perform on Sunday at 7 p.m. at the Iron Horse Music Hall in Northampton.) And she recently finished putting the final touches on what she believes is one of her best - and most personal - albums. “These songs burst out of me,” Cole said earlier this month, talking on the phone as she lay in a hammock in her backyard. “They had to be written. They had to come out.” But Cole admits getting to this comfortable place was not so easy. And she deals with some of those complications in her new album, “Ithaca.” “It’s an album of light and dark,” Cole said. “I was going through so much.” What Cole went through was a divorce and the decision to leave New York City and move back home in 2008. “It’s funny to be back home,” she said. “I feel a little bit like a transplanted, lost New Yorker.” Cole mainly decided to move back home because she wanted the support of her family to help raise her 8-year-old daughter, Sky. “I was a single mom in New York City and I couldn’t imagine doing that,” Cole said. “It (Rockport) is a good place to raise a child.” Leaving New York was hard at first. “I miss the city sometimes,” she admits. But everything’s turned out just fine. In fact, better than fine. You can hear it Cole’s voice. You can practically see her smile as she says on the phone, “Even though the divorce was difficult, I found my family again.” “I love them (my parents) so much and I’m so grateful to them,” Cole added. “I wouldn’t have found that without the divorce.” Cole has a lot to be grateful for and she knows it. A graduate of the Berklee College of Music in Boston, Cole toured as a singer soon after college with Peter Gabriel in 1993 and 1994. She released her first solo album, “Harbinger,” in 1994. Then came “This Fire,” the 1996 album that changed Cole’s life. The album contained two songs which were constantly on the radio in 1996 and 1997: “Where Have All The Cowboys Gone” and “I Don’t Want To Wait,” which became the theme song for the popular television show “Dawson’s Creek.” The album earned Cole several Grammy nominations, including winning the Grammy for ‘Best New Artist’ in 1997. For many people, Cole remains synonymous with those two songs. Some artists might resent being known for only one or two songs. And Cole admits she sometimes has “felt misunderstood in my career and my world” because people think they know who she is just because of these two, 14-year-old songs. But don’t expect Cole to complain. “I’m grateful for my hit songs,” she said. “I was able to survive.” Cole made two albums after “This Fire.” Then last year, Cole recorded “Ithaca” in New York City. The album’s title refers to the fictional Greek city the mythological character Homer yearns to return home to in “The Odyssey.” For Cole, her Ithaca is Rockport. If she hadn’t come home, she said she probably would not have been able to write the songs she wrote for this album. “I needed to get quiet and follow a thought through, like surfing a long wave,” she said. Like many of her other songs, the music came first for many of the songs on “Ithaca,” then the lyrics. The album will be released in September. Cole recently delivered the finished album to her record label, Decca. “It rocks,” Cole said. “It’s musical yet it’s tender.” “I’m really proud of what we do,” Cole added, referring to herself and her fellow band members. “I’m really proud and grateful to be alive in the music business.” “Music matter so much to me,” Cole said. Although nowadays, her music has some very strong competition for Cole’s attention. “I’m singularly devoted to my music and my child,” she said.