Canada’s biggest alt-rock export Mother Mother are thrilled to announce they will be returning to Australia

Canada’s biggest alt-rock export Mother Mother are thrilled to announce they will be returning to Australia

Canada’s biggest alt-rock export Mother Mother are thrilled to announce they will be returning to Australia and finally making their debut in New Zealand this November for their largest tour here yet!

“We are beyond thrilled to be returning to Australia and New Zealand again,” says Mother Mother vocalist, songwriter, and guitarist Ryan Guldemond. “We adore our fans in this part of the world. We’ve always been met with wide open arms and we can’t wait to create an epic night of indie rock and positive vibes. We are excited to finally be able to visit New Zealand after our last shows there were postponed. We truly can’t wait!”

The tour announcement arrives as Mother Mother share their new single, “Explode!” — via Warner Records. Watch the captivating video here.

The track is the latest offering from their highly anticipated new album, Grief Chapter, which was released on February 16 via Warner Records. The album was introduced by lead single “Normalize,” which arrived alongside the video directed by acclaimed horror director Colin Minihan (Grave Encounters, What Keeps You Alive). It was then followed by the uplifting “To My Heart” and the future-facing “The Matrix,” which deploys dreamy keys and swooning vocals.

Comprised of Ryan Guldemond (vocals, guitar), Molly Guldemond (vocals, keys), Jasmin Parkin (vocals, keys), Ali Siadat (drums) and Mike Young (bass), Mother Mother have seen truly remarkable growth over the past three years. 2022 catapulted the band into a new stratosphere of universal success following the release of their 8th studio album Inside, with platinum certified single “Hayloft II” connecting with audiences around the globe.

In the pounding, profound new album, Grief Chapter – their ninth – the beloved Canadian group push the page, the pen, and their sound further than they ever have before. A dialed-up collection of songs that takes chances, swings big, goes as grandiose with the songwriting as it does granular, Grief Chapter dives lyrically deep on Big Picture concepts like life, death, mourning, and the freedom that comes with accepting the inevitable. And sonically, Grief Chapter’s twelve songs are some of Mother Mother’s most muscular offerings of all time, buoyed by legions of new fans and the bigger rooms and venues that have followed their recent years of continued, evolved success. “Our instinct was to make things hit hard and feel powerful,” says lead singer and Mother Mother lyricist Ryan Guldemond. “We don’t take this moment for granted — or this life. A life in music, doing what we love with whom we love.”

MOTHER MOTHER – AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND 2024 TOUR:

TOWN HALL, AUCKLAND – THURSDAY 14 NOVEMBER

HINDLEY STREET MUSIC HALL, ADELADIE – SATURDAY 16 NOVEMBER

FORTITUDE MUSIC HALL, BRISBANE – TUESDAY 19 NOVEMBER

FESTIVAL HALL, MELBOURNE – THURSDAY 21 NOVEMBER

HORDERN PAVILION, SYDNEY – SATURDAY 23 NOVEMBER

METRO CITY, PERTH – MONDAY 25 NOVEMBER

Related