November 2, 2006

MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif., -- Mercury Interactive Corporation announced that The First American Corporation has implemented Mercury BTO Enterprise(TM) to help optimize the quality, performance and compliance of its mission-critical business applications. Mercury offerings help First American shorten cycle times of key Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) processes such as incident management, problem resolution and release management that are part of a complex IT consolidation effort to support the world's largest real estate information database. Mercury BTO Enterprise is the industry's first integrated suite of BTO offerings designed to help customers optimize the business outcomes of IT.

In the last two decades First American has transformed itself from primarily a title insurance company into the largest business information provider in the country. With 2,100 offices in the United States and abroad, First American ranks 284 on the 2006 FORTUNE 500(R) list. The company combines advanced analytics with its vast data resources to supply businesses and consumers with valuable information products.

In order to scale its business while effectively managing the complexity of its burgeoning technology infrastructure, First American is consolidating its IT infrastructure to provide better service to its various business units. In addition, the company is standardizing its IT processes with ITIL initiatives to maintain focus on business outcomes while streamlining operations.

"Every day, First American uses technology to be more competitive," said Evan Jafa, chief technology officer of The First American Corporation. "Because of the visibility that Mercury products give us into our IT and business processes, we no longer have 'blame-storming sessions.' Instead, we have very direct visibility into areas where problems might be, and we very quickly go after them. Mercury has enabled us to shorten the cycles of key ITIL processes such as incident management, problem resolution and release management."

Rather than just monitoring IT systems, First American uses Mercury Business Availability Center(TM) to monitor critical business processes and their underlying applications. In addition, Mercury Business Availability Center helps First American's IT group manage its service levels with a business perspective, resolving issues even before they impact customers.

First American uses Mercury IT Governance Center(TM) to manage its IT compliance needs. The IT group also uses Mercury IT Governance Center to standardize its IT processes across the organization by automating ITIL processes such as release management for global ERP applications.

Source: Mercury Interactive Corporation