Mercury Interactive Corp, the leading provider of enterprise testing and performance management solutions, announced today the extension to its existing application performance management (APM) solution to include the monitoring of all types of applications beyond those with Web clients.

Topaz for Enterprise Applications will now actively monitor applications including enterprise resource planning (ERP), customer relationship management (CRM), legacy and custom client/server, enabling IT and operations to monitor all mission-critical applications from an end-user`s perspective.

"Mercury Interactive customers who have seen the benefits of using Topaz in Web environments have recognised the value of monitoring from the end-user perspective for all key applications - including Web and non-Web applications," said Ido Sarig, vice president of APM marketing at Mercury Interactive.

"In particular, LoadRunner customers who have long been able to work with a wide variety of enterprise applications have requested this functionality. Mercury Interactive has responded to this request with Topaz for Enterprise Applications enabling customers to monitor both Web and non-Web environments."

"Mercury Interactive continues to extend the range of its product technology and services to address new areas of application performance management," said Tim Talbot, senior vice president, PHH Arval. "With the latest offerings, Mercury Interactive is enabling customers to monitor performance across the entire Web and enterprise infrastructure."

Topaz for Enterprise Applications addresses the difficulty IT groups face today when trying to determine which users and applications are impacted when performance problems occur within the system. With the ever-growing complexity of enterprise infrastructures, which may have multiple interfaces, layers, tiers and vendors, performance problems are unavoidable. Mercury Interactive`s Topaz is the only solution that measures the end-user experience 24x7 and correlates performance and availability issues to system-centric information to speed problem resolution.