A look back at one of the key films in the bloody wave of early 2000s Japanese splatter…

Originally released back in 2008, the same year as Yoshihiro Nishimura’s Tokyo Gore Police, Noboru Iguchi’s The Machine Girl was very much a key film in the wave of wild Japanese splatter which was so popular in the post-Ringu years. The film was probably always destined for cult fandom in the west due to the simple fact that it revolves around a Japanese schoolgirl with a machinegun arm on a bloody quest for revenge, and it managed a wider release than most, playing festivals and attracting a fair amount of mainstream interest.

The plot follows a schoolgirl called Ami (gravure model Minase Yashiro), who takes care of her younger brother after their parents are framed for murder and commit suicide. Although Ami has sworn off violence, when a particularly nasty gang of bullies kill her brother and his friend she swears revenge. Unfortunately, the thugs turn out to have yakuza connections, and she is kidnapped, tortured and has her arm cut off. Barely escaping with her life, Ami takes refuge with the parents of her brother’s murdered friend. The mother, Miki (played by Asami, equally known for her AV and splatter film work, and who featured in the likes of Robo Geisha, Mutant Girls Squad and other Japanese gore classics) agrees to join her on her quest for vengeance, and the father helps by making her a replacement machinegun arm, which comes in very handy as the two women face down hordes of gangsters and ninjas.

The Machine Girl is a film that delivers exactly as promised, with writer director Noboru Iguchi quite literally painting the screen red, revelling in the almost nonstop action and violence. The gore certainly comes thick and fast, with plenty of chainsaw and sword carnage alongside the bloody hails of bullets, though while the film is brutal, the splatter is inventive rather than sadistic, and it plays out more like a hyperactive cartoon than some of its crueller and nastier Japanese peers. Although not as wildly creative and far out as Tokyo Gore Police (which Iguchi also worked on, directing the amazing faux-television adverts), there are some hilarious and memorable scenes including one with a drill bra that has to be seen to be believed and an appearance by everybody’s favourite decapitation weapon, the flying guillotine.

On the downside, the budget was obviously low, and the shot on video production values are pretty shoddy throughout. Some of the gore effects are fairly primitive, and a lot of the CGI effects appear to have been created using a home computer. Still, it seems a little mean to dwell on such relatively minor shortcomings, and Iguchi’s direction is kinetic and fast-moving enough to distract from the less technically impressive aspects of the film. If anything, the moments of cheapness give things an even wackier air, and the film is a great deal of fun and wisely doesn’t take itself too seriously – though as with most productions of its type the amateurish acting does grate somewhat and the pace tends to sag away from the action scenes, the film still makes for incredibly entertaining viewing.

Nearly fifteen years later, The Machine Girl remains a must-see for all fans of Japanese exploitation, and indeed of ultraviolent cinema in general. Well deserving of its cult status and serving up wacky, blood-soaked fun from start to finish, it stands as one of the most enjoyable films of its kind, and paved the way for future Noboru Iguchi classics which dialled up the craziness even further.