Barcelona, April 24, 2008 - Gammick Entertainment and Enjoy Up present the second playable character of Zombie BBQ: Momotaro.

Storyland is infested with zombies! Little Red Riding Hood has whipped out her weapon and is locked and loaded, ready to end the threat of the undead. But she will not be alone: Momotaro, the peach boy who’s recently arrived from Japanese folklore, will join her on this dangerous crusade. But… what powers and secrets does this legendary character hold?

Momotaro is the second selectable character in Zombie BBQ. He can access the arsenal of weapons in the game, and shoot their enemies… whenever he has snatched enough weapons from his enemies' cold dead hands! From a lethal laser rifle to a sawed-off shotgun and moving up to an incredibly powerful flame thrower or 'Zombie BBQer', Momotaro will have at his disposal plenty of firepower to take on enemies such as the ferocious Granny, the undead Gretel and Pinocchio, the puppet who wanted to be a zombie boy. Not only that, while Red Riding Hood uses her trusty machine gun as a weapon by default, Momotaro launches sharp ninja stars that will spell certain doom for many of the classic characters that will rise from the grave.

You must choose: Will you control the devastating power of Little Red Riding Hood and her firearms? Or master the deadly precision of a classic Japanese legend like Momotaro? See it at www.gammickentertainment.com

Zombie BBQ will be released on Q4 2008.

About Gammick Entertainment

GAMMICK Entertainment S.L. is a videogame production company at the heart of the growing Spanish videogame sector. Gammick aims to oversee and nurture the productions of international video game development companies.

Gammick is based in Barcelona and is supported by one of the top five communications groups in the world. Gammick is committed to working with both development teams and international publishers. Our team includes specialists with up to fifteen years' experience in video game development, production and international distribution.

The production company has solid backing, extensive know-how and attractive production projects that confirms its potential. The twin premises of fun and profitability underline the company’s commitment to produce titles that are easy to play, with direct and immediate satisfaction for the player which ensures success for the publisher.

About Enjoy Up

EnjoyUp Games is an innovative videogame development Studio. The company started with a team that has more than 10 years experience in the entertainment sector and whose goal is to revolutionize the concept of the videogame. The aim of EnjoyUp is always to create new and enjoyable ways to play.

Their philosophy is to create new products that bring new feelings to the player. This goal has been achieved with their latest ambitious and original project for Nintendo DS, an amazing videogame where the action takes place on two screens and, at the same time, adopts a new time concept.

###

For further information, please contact

Óliver Méndez

Marketing & PR Manager

e-mail: mendez@gammickentertainment.com

www.gammickentertainment.com