Overview

Dodge Center is a very small city located in the state of Minnesota. With a population of 2,829 people and just one neighborhood, Dodge Center is the 251st largest community in Minnesota.

Occupations and Workforce

Dodge Center is a blue-collar town, with 36.05% of people working in blue-collar occupations, while the average in America is just 27.7%. Overall, Dodge Center is a city of sales and office workers, professionals, and service providers. There are especially a lot of people living in Dodge Center who work in office and administrative support (13.33%), management occupations (7.28%), and sales jobs (7.16%).

Demographics

In terms of college education, Dodge Center is nearly on par with the US average for all cities of 21.84%: 20.49% of adults 25 and older in Dodge Center have a bachelor's degree or advanced degree.

The per capita income in Dodge Center in 2022 was $38,585, which is upper middle income relative to Minnesota and the nation. This equates to an annual income of $154,340 for a family of four. However, Dodge Center contains both very wealthy and poor people as well.

Dodge Center is a somewhat ethnically-diverse city. The people who call Dodge Center home describe themselves as belonging to a variety of racial and ethnic groups. The greatest number of Dodge Center residents report their race to be White, followed by Asian. Dodge Center also has a sizeable Hispanic population (people of Hispanic origin can be of any race). People of Hispanic or Latino origin account for 15.79% of the city’s residents. Important ancestries of people in Dodge Center include German, Norwegian, Irish, English, and Swedish.

The most common language spoken in Dodge Center is English. Other important languages spoken here include Spanish and Tagalog.

The Neighbors

There are two complementary measures for understanding the income of a neighborhood's residents: the average and the extremes. While a neighborhood may be relatively wealthy overall, it is equally important to understand the rate of people - particularly children - who are living at or below the federal poverty line, which is extremely low income. Some neighborhoods with a lower average income may actually have a lower childhood poverty rate than another with a higher average income, and this helps us understand the conditions and character of a neighborhood.

The neighbors in the neighborhood in Dodge Center are upper-middle income, making it an above average income neighborhood. NeighborhoodScout's exclusive analysis reveals that this neighborhood has a higher income than 69.1% of the neighborhoods in America. In addition, 9.8% of the children seventeen and under living in this neighborhood are living below the federal poverty line, which is a lower rate of childhood poverty than is found in 51.2% of America's neighborhoods.

What we choose to do for a living reflects who we are. Each neighborhood has a different mix of occupations represented, and together these tell you about the neighborhood and help you understand if this neighborhood may fit your lifestyle.

In the neighborhood, 32.6% of the working population is employed in manufacturing and laborer occupations. The second most important occupational group in this neighborhood is executive, management, and professional occupations, with 31.6% of the residents employed. Other residents here are employed in sales and service jobs, from major sales accounts, to working in fast food restaurants (17.1%), and 16.7% in clerical, assistant, and tech support occupations.

Ethnicity / Ancestry

Culture is the shared learned behavior of peoples. Undeniably, different ethnicities and ancestries have different cultural traditions, and as a result, neighborhoods with concentrations of residents of one or another ethnicities or ancestries will express those cultures. It is what makes the North End in Boston so fun to visit for the Italian restaurants, bakeries, culture, and charm, and similarly, why people enjoy visiting Chinatown in San Francisco.

In the neighborhood in Dodge Center, MN, residents most commonly identify their ethnicity or ancestry as German (37.7%). There are also a number of people of Norwegian ancestry (20.1%), and residents who report Mexican roots (11.0%), and some of the residents are also of Irish ancestry (5.7%), along with some English ancestry residents (5.2%), among others.

Getting to Work

Even if your neighborhood is walkable, you may still have to drive to your place of work. Some neighborhoods are located where many can get to work in just a few minutes, while others are located such that most residents have a long and arduous commute. The greatest number of commuters in neighborhood spend under 15 minutes commuting one-way to work (34.1% of working residents), one of the shortest commutes across America.

Here most residents (76.5%) drive alone in a private automobile to get to work. In addition, quite a number also carpool with coworkers, friends, or neighbors to get to work (13.2%) . In a neighborhood like this, as in most of the nation, many residents find owning a car useful for getting to work.