Nicole Gant

Nicole Gant, of Bryn Mawr, died on Jan. 30, 2009 at Bryn Mawr Hospital. She was 42.

Born in Norristown, she was the daughter of S. Jean (Weidner) Gant and the late C. Norman Gant, Jr.

Ms. Gant was a graduate of Wissahickon High School class of 1985 and attended Kutztown University and the University of Pennsylvania. She was employed by the University of Penn School of Social Policy and Practice for 19 years.

She enjoyed cooking for her family and her co-workers. In addition to her mother Jean, she is survived by three sisters Renee Gant of Bryn Mawr, Mary Smith of Sicklerville, NJ, Marcia Hicks of Columbia, Md.

Relatives and friends are invited to her viewing on Feb. 4 from 6-8 p.m. followed by the Funeral Service at 8 p.m. at the Emil J. Ciavarelli Family Funeral Homes, 516 Fayette St., Conshohocken. Interment Feb. 5 at 10 a.m. at Northwood Cemetery, 15th and Haines St., Philadelphia.

George C. Kantner

George C. Kantner of Springhouse Estates died Jan. 14, 2009.

He was the husband of Eileen (Elder) Kantner.

Mr. Kantner served in the 4th Division of the U.S. Marine Corps and received a citation and a Purple Heart for service in World War II in the Pacific. He was a research chemist at Rohm & Haas Laboratories for 30 years. Mr. Kantner also was a volunteer at the Upper Dublin Library.

In addition to his wife, Mr. Kantner is survived by a daughter, Deborah Bille (Matthew); two grandchildren, Corey and Lauryn Bille; and a brother, Robert C. Kantner.

A funeral service was held Jan. 21 at Jarrettown United Methodist Church, Dresher. Interment was in Jarrettown United Methodist Church Cemetery.

Memorial contributions in his name may be made to the Samaritan Fund of the Springhouse Estates, 728 Norristown Road, Ambler, PA 19002.

Arrangements were made by Craft/Givnish of Abington.

Adolph H. Wegener

Adolph H. “Dutch” Wegener, of Newfoundland, Pa., formerly of Rockledge, died Jan. 27, 2009. He was 81.

He was the husband of 55 years to Elfriede (Wunderlich).

He attended Emmaus High School and graduated from Ambler High School in 1945.

He earned a bachelor of arts in German from Muhlenberg College in 1948 and a Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania in 1956.

He joined the faculty at Muhlenberg College in 1956, where he was professor of German language and literature until 1989. He also taught German part-time at Beaver College (now Arcadia University) and in the adult education program at Abington High School.

He was very active professionally, writing numerous articles and presenting papers at foreign language conferences.

In 1964, he interviewed well-known German authors Gunter Grass and Wolfgang Hildesheimer.

He was national president of the American Association of Teachers of German from 1981-1983.

In 1995, he and his wife moved to their house in the Pocono Springs Estates near Newfoundland.

He loved to travel, read, and eat out at his favorite restaurants. He had a great sense of humor and enjoyed sharing jokes with friends.

He was a member of Grace Lutheran Church in Gouldsboro.

In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Karin Knisely; two sons Al and Curt Wegener; and 12 grandchildren.

The viewing with service took place Jan. 31 at the Arthur J. Frey Funeral Home in La Anna, Pa. Interment was at Forest Hills Cemetery, Philadelphia.

Memorial donations may be made to Grace Lutheran Church, 515 Main St., Gouldsboro, PA 18424.

Elliott S. Herman

Elliott Stewart Herman of Maple Glen, a pharmacist, died Jan. 26, 2009, after a battle with cancer. He was 47.

He was the son of Dr. Harold and Ethel Herman.

In addition to his parents, he is survived by his wife, Sharon (Gross) Herman; his children, Alyssa and Alana; his siblings, Dr. Steven Herman, Joseph Herman, Linda Guber and Dr. Richard Herman.

Funeral services were held Jan. 29 at Joseph Levine & Son Memorial Chapel, Trevose. Interment was in Shalom Memorial Park.

Contributions in his memory may be made to the American Cancer Society, 1626 Locust St., Philadelphia PA 19103 or Temple Sinai, 1401 N. Limekiln Pike, Dresher, PA 19025.

Agatha Moran

Agatha T. ‘Jean’ (Latchford) Moran, a retired office administrator, died Jan. 26, 2009.

Mrs. Moran was a resident of Normandy Farms in Blue Bell and was formerly of East Norriton.

She was born in Philadelphia, on Aug. 26, 1925, a daughter to the late Raymond F. and Irene (Ward) Latchford and stepdaughter of the late Frances (Fields) Latchford.

She was the widow to the late John J. Moran.

Mrs. Moran graduated from Little Flower High School in Philadelphia and her hobby was watercolor painting.

She is survived by her daughter, Patricia Moran of New York, N.Y.; her three sons, John J. Moran Jr. of Overland Park, Kansas, Michael P. Moran of North Wales and Martin Moran of Saunderstown, RI.; six grandchildren and her sister, Dorothy Brett of Roslyn.

Relatives and friends were invited to share in Mrs. Moran’s life celebration at the Boyd-Horrox Funeral Home of East Norriton, 200 West Germantown Pike, (1-800-GIVNISH) Jan. 31, from 10 a.m. until noon followed by her funeral Mass celebrated at 12:30 p.m. in St. Titus Church, Keenwood Road, East Norriton.

Burial was in Holy Sepulchre Cemetery in Cheltenham Township.

The family has requested that a memorial donation in her honor be made to the Parkinson’s Disease Center of Pennsylvania Hospital, 330 South 9th Street, Philadelphia, PA 19107.

Mark Ambler

Mark W. Ambler, of West Conshohocken, on Jan. 28, 2009 at Mercy Suburban Hospital, East Norriton. He was 75.

Born in Philadelphia, he was a son the late William P. Ambler and Ella Mae (Hughes) Ambler. Mr. Ambler lived in West Conshohocken since 1976, formerly of Norristown and Collegeville. He attended St. Gertrude RC Church in West Conshohocken.

He worked as an accountant with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Department of Welfare at Wernersville State Hospital.

Then Pennhurst, and he was working on the campus of Norristown State Hospital when he retired from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 2007.

After retiring he worked Part time as an accountant with Temple Brith Achim in King of Prussia, and ITEM Publications in Plymouth Meeting. He was also the Head coach with Eastern University Women’s Softball for the last six years and with the program for the last nine years. He had volunteered as a coach with St. Gertrude and St. Katharine Boys & Girls Basketball.

He was Past President of Lower Perk Fast Pitch Softball League and he played competitive softball for over 30 years. He was an avid Phillies fan and season ticket holder since 1972.

He also ran, with his family, the Robert Leister Memorial Basketball Tournament at the Conshohocken Fellowship House.

Mr. Ambler is survived by his wife, Eileen (Opiela) Ambler, West Conshohocken; son: Brian M. Ambler, Philadelphia; daughter, Ellen G. Ambler, Conshohocken; daughter: Lisa A. Ambler, Norristown; son: Michael S. Ambler, Conshohocken; brother: Doug Ambler, West Chester; sister: Linda Fleisher, Oreland; brother: Steven Ambler, Allentown.

He was preceded in death by a baby son, Mark W. Ambler Jr.

His Funeral Mass was held on Feb. 3 at St. Gertrude RC Church, Bullock and Merion Ave., West Conshohocken.

Interment: George Washington Memorial Park, Plymouth Meeting.

Contributions may be in his memory to: “Mark W. Ambler Memorial Fund” c/o 300 Fayette Street, Conshohocken, PA 19428.

Jane Manduke

Jane (Botzum) Manduke, 82, of Conshohocken, an administrative assistant, died at her daughter’s home Jan. 30, 2009.

She was born in Norristown, daughter of the late Theodore F. and Elizabeth (Kennedy) Botzum and wife of the late William J. Manduke.

She was a parishioner of St. Matthew RC Church in Conshohocken. Mrs. Manduke was employed by James Lee’s & Sons & Pest Control Technicians.

For the past 10 years she resided at Marshall Lee Towers in Conshohocken of which she served for eight years as secretary.

She was a member of various religious organizations. Mrs. Manduke enjoyed trips to the Atlantic City casinos, crocheting and reading.

Mrs. Manduke is survived by a daughter, Jane D’Angelo (Anthony) of Conshohocken; a brother, Theodore F. of Palmyra; three grandchildren, Matthew Stifneo, Lisa D’Angelo Cowan (Sean) and Christie D’Angelo; two great-grandchildren and many nieces and nephews.

Preceded in death by a daughter, Lisa Stifnell and a brother, Edward D.

Relatives and friends were invited to attend her memorial service Feb. 2 from 9:45-11 a.m. at St. Matthew RC Church, 3rd Ave. & Fayette St., Conshohocken, PA 19428.

A memorial Mass took place in the church at 11 a.m. Interment was private at the convenience of the family at St. Patrick Cemetery in East Norriton.

Memorial donations in Mrs. Manduke’s name may be made to St. Matthew Church at the aforementioned address.

Arrangements are by the William A. Moore Funeral Home, 708 Fayette St., Conshohocken.

Dominic A. DiNiglio

Dominic A. DiNiglio died Jan. 26, 2009.

He was the brother of Nicoline Tucker and is also survived by many nieces and nephews. He was preceded in death by his sisters, Madeline Williams, Antoinette DiNiglio, Theresa McCorry and Anna DiNiglio.

A Mass of Christian Burial was held Jan. 30 at Queen of Peace Church in Ardsley. Interment was in Holy Sepulchre Cemetery in Cheltenham.

Contributions in his name may be made to the American Cancer Society, 1626 Locust St., Philadelphia, PA 19103.

Funeral arrangements were made by Angelone Funeral Home of Willow Grove.

Dorothy Mocarski

Dorothy R. (Anasiewicz) Mocarski of Norristown, died peacefully Jan. 29, 2009 after a battle with Parkinson’s disease and cancer. She was 80 years of age.

She was born and raised the youngest of seven children to Polish immigrant parents, Martin and Mary (Wieclaw) Anasiewicz and lived 70 of her 80 years in Swedesburg.

She raised her family in Swedesburg with her husband, John J. Mocarski Sr., who passed away in 1987.

She was an avid reader and loved to play cards and bingo. She spent many of her Thursdays for the last 30 years with Golden Age Club of St. Mary’s Church in Conshohocken. She loved going to Sea Isle City every summer.

She was employed on the production line of Stauffer Bakeries and was an Aquatics Engineer for the Upper Merion High School.

She was a member of Sacred Heart R.C. Church of Swedesburg and the Rosary Society of the Parish.

She also ran the kitchen for many years for the Sacred Heart Polish Festival.

She is survived by four children, Debora (Karl) of Phoenixville, Patricia (Paul), with whom she lived for the past 10 years, of Norristown, Janice (John) of Norristown and John Jr. (Kathleen)of Phoenixville. Also surviving are six grandchildren, John Steven Yakscoe, Matthew, Andrew Hohorst, Sean, Alexander and Janine Mocarski; a sister, Helen Giampietro of Phoenixville. Funeral Mass was celebrated Feb. 3 at 10 a.m. in Sacred Heart R.C. Church, Jefferson St., Swedesburg. Fr. Andrew McCormick, pastor, officiated.

Relatives and friends called Tuesday from 8:30 to 9:50 a.m. at the church. Interment was in St. Augustine Cemetery, King of Prussia.

The family request memorial contributions are made to Sacred Heart Church Building Fund, 120 Jefferson St., Swedesburg, PA. 19405.

Arrangements are by the Bernard S. Gutkowski Funeral Home, Inc. of Swedesburg.

Patricia P. Sullivan

Patricia P. Sullivan, of Cresco, Pa., formerly of Lafayette Hill, died Feb. 1, 2009, at her residence. She was 89.

Mrs. Sullivan was born in Philadelphia, the daughter of Pearl (Patton) Payne and the late George Payne.

She was a former member of St. Philip Neri Church in Lafayette Hill and a member of St. Mary of the Mount Church in Mount Pocono.

She is survived by her mother; her husband, Robert J. Sullivan Sr.; one daughter, Kathleen P. Amato-Straub of Conshohocken; two sons, Robert J. Sullivan Jr. of Plymouth Meeting and Joseph G. Sullivan of Winslow, Maine.; and six grandchildren.

She was preceded in death A brother, Frederick G. Payne III, who died in 1994.

Funeral services were held Feb.5 at St. Mary of the Mount. Burial will be held privately at George Washington Memorial Park, Plymouth Meeting.

Memorial contributions may be made to VNA Hospice House of Monroe County, 5002 Independence Road, East Stroudsburg, PA 18301.

Arrangements by The Lownes Funeral Home of Lafayette Hill.