Belper has undergone a renaissance in recent years but the market town has long had plenty going for it as the below photographs demonstrate.

Originally, a centre for the nail-making industry stretching back centuries, Belper expanded rapidly in the early Industrial Revolution to become one of the first mill towns after the building of several mills because of its plentiful supply of water from the River Derwent flowing through it.

The name Belper is said to originate from the French Beaurepaire, meaning beautiful retreat, and is first recorded in a charter of 1231.

Industrialist Jedediah Strutt built a water- powered cotton mill in Belper in the late 18th century, sparking the rapid expansion of the town.

Belper was the first place in the UK to get gas lighting, at a works erected by the Strutts at Milford.

Demand was such that in 1850, the Belper Gas and Coke Company was formed, with a works in the present Goods Road. Electricity followed in 1922.

Obviously, the town's football team are nicknamed the Nailers as a reference to the ancient industry of the town.

In 2014, Belper was give the High Street of the Year award for the Market Town category, as well as winning the award overall.

The judges stated "Belper is blessed with a wonderful history as a World Heritage Site but has much to offer as a thriving market town as well".

Notable people who were born or lived in Belper include: actor Timothy Dalton, former Wimbledon tournament referee Andrew Jarrett, Commonwealth swimming gold medalist Ross Davenport, children's writer Monica Edwards, actress Suzy Kendall, mountaineer Alison Hargreaves, Coronation Street actress Tracey Shaw and former Derby County footballer Ron Webster.

Do you have any old photographs of Belper? If so, please send them to newsdesk@derbytelegraph.co.uk with a short caption.

Or you could check out our new Memory Lane service.

It is a free online photo archive. It allows people to share historical snaps and view times long since forgotten.

Memory Lane's content is searchable by location, date, topics, people, categories and more.

Pictures are uploaded by users, communities, schools, councils, museums, local businesses and newspaper archives.

Memory Lane aims to be create a larger, more inclusive and more accurate picture of the past, while giving its users a platform to share their own history.

It also uses the latest technology to allow you to turn your old black and white photographs into colour, for free.