The work of teachers is subject to changing not only policies and reforms but also the complexities and contradictions of societal transformations. This paper examines teachers' perceptions of the impact of post-Soviet transformations on teacher collaboration amid the changing education policies and reforms in Ukraine. Drawing on qualitative methods such as document analysis, focus groups, and individual interviews, this case study reveals that the nature, content, and format of collaboration among teachers in schools are susceptible to transformations at the macro (societal) as well as micro (school) levels. The study points to the ongoing struggle between the forces of modernity and postmodernity and highlights dilemmas and paradoxes that characterize educational reforms in post-Soviet Ukraine.

This article examines the interconnections between mentoring and teacher collaboration in view of the intergenerational gap between experienced and novice educators in the post-Soviet Ukraine. The conceptual framework utilized a constructive postmodern perspective as an analytical lens and examined mentorship as a collaborative form of teacher development. Qualitative methods, such as document analysis, focus group interviews, and individual interviews, were used in this study. Collaboration among generations of teachers in schools was found to be susceptible to transformations at the macrolevel (societal) as well as the microlevel (school). The study suggests that the development of collaborative cultures in Ukrainian schools requires close attention to bridging the intergenerational gap between experienced and novice teachers by establishing lasting and deep working relationships through the systematic practice of mentorship.

The collapse of the Soviet Union marked a critical turning point in the development of Ukraine's national identity. The period of independence of Ukraine is characterized by significant changes at the societal level. Few organizations reflected the complexities and contradictions of societal changes as poignantly as schools. This article describes educators' experiences in a context of large-scale philosophical, ideological, social, political, and economic changes of the post-Soviet era, and the teachers' interpretation of the impact of related changes upon education in general and Ukrainian schools in particular within the period of independence. This article will inform policymakers about the factors that affect schools in times of societal transformations and will provide a source of reference for planning reform policies during the period of transition in the system of education.

This article reviews research conducted at the Center for the Improvement of Early Reading Achievement that investigated the effects of home, community, school, and teacher factors on students' reading achievement. First, we review studies that highlight the importance of positive school-home partnerships and open communication between schools and families. Then, we summarize studies investigating the characteristics of schools that were effective in teaching students to read. Leadership, collaboration in the teaching of reading and in sustained professional development, and positive home-school connections were found to be especially important. Finally, we review a large-scale, 3-year project in which a framework for change built on collaboration and reflection on teaching was used to help teachers improve their reading instruction. The school change framework was found to be effective in schools in which leadership, collaboration, and sustained professional development efforts were in place. We conclude with a discussion of the types of support that are needed within schools to help teachers improve their reading instruction to increase students' reading achievement.

School change efforts to develop schools as learning communities result in schools that are constantly learning and thus changing. This collective case study of four schools involved in a 4-year reform effort begins to examine the ongoing sustainability of a learning community. The study draws insights about the sustainability of learning communities in these schools as involving issues of change, loss, and hope. After offering a description for each of these themes, a discussion is offered that draws connections to the environmental factors of administrative support, collaborative structures, relational integrity, enablers, and coherence that operated to perpetuate reform in these schools.