The EY organization has been working with insurers around the world to implement the new global harmonizing accounting standard, IFRS 17, which is improving comparability and transparency in the global industry. Reporting against IFRS 17 requires insurers to transform their processes, controls and technology and prepare data at a new level of granularity, using modern accounting platforms.

While IFRS 17 is not mandatory in Japan, the Japanese online life insurance pioneer, LIFENET, has voluntarily adopted this accounting standard to support its transformative growth strategy. The company is spearheading a partnership strategy of selling insurance to the customer bases of other companies in adjacent industries. LIFENET also recently started a group credit life insurance business.

“We are working to innovate the customer experience,” says LIFENET Executive Officer, Takeshi Kawasaki. “Our management goal is to achieve Comprehensive Equity of 200 billion yen to 240 billion yen in fiscal 2028.”

The company has an innovative manifesto to ‘create the future of life insurance’, but as LIFENET sought to attract investors to fund its growth ambitions, it bumped up against an unexpected issue. The way Japanese accounting standards treat insurance contracts has a particular effect on financial reporting.

“Because Japanese standards emphasize soundness, they do not allow us to defer new contract costs,” explains Kawasaki.

“From 2017 to 2018, our number of new contracts grew rapidly. But, according to Japanese accounting standards, our deficit increased. The way we were reporting our financial results did not provide a full picture of the long-term profitability of the business,” he adds.

IFRS 17 is still voluntary in Japan, but its focus on periodic profit and loss was highly attractive to LIFENET. “We realized that IFRS would enable us to defer new contract fees over the policy period in alignment with the policy income generating at the same time. This meant we would be able to disclose periodic profit and loss in line with our company's actual state,” says Kawasaki.

With IFRS disclosures offering a more accurate picture of LIFENET’s strong financial fundamentals, the company could then approach the market with a compelling story.

Being able to disclose information using a universally recognized global accounting standard would also help LIFENET to widen their investor base beyond Japan. “With the insurance industry continuing to globalize, it was important that we match the benchmark of IFRS to support international comparison,” Kawasaki says.

LIFENET decided to become Japan’s first independent insurance company to implement IFRS17.