Even before Elon Musk completed his deal to acquire Twitter, there was speculation the billionaire might move the social media company's headquarters from San Francisco to Austin, which has become a center of operations for Tesla and other Musk-led companies.

Musk has said little publicly about the possibility until this week, when he was asked about it during a meeting with Twitter employees.

While saying he currently "does not intend" to move Twitter's headquarters to Texas, Musk left open the possibility that some of Twitter's operations could be moved to the Lone Star State, according reports from technology news sites.

More:Elon Musk's Twitter saga is not good for Austin-based Tesla, analysts say

During the meeting, Musk said he not ruled out adding a second headquarters in Texas, according to a report from tech publication the Verge. Musk said it could make sense to “dual headquarter” the company in California and Texas. The report said the Verge had spoken to two people who attended and had obtained a partial recording of the meeting.

Musk said he didn't want to fully move the corporate headquarters to Texas because it would "play into the idea that Twitter has gone from being left-wing to right-wing," which Musk said is not the case, and he instead considers it a "moderate-wing takeover" of the company, according to the Verge report.

A separate report from Business Insider on the meeting also indicated Musk told employees he "does not intend" to move Twitter's headquarters to Texas from San Francisco.

During the same meeting, Musk also said that Twitter, which has made extensive cuts in recent weeks , was done with layoffs and would be actively recruiting for roles in engineering and sales, the reports said.

More:Elon Musk says Austin's not his home, but he spends a lot of time here, flight records show

Twitter headquarters in Austin 'would make a ton of strategic sense'

A number of business leaders and industry analysts have speculated that some of Twitter's operations could move to the Austin area, in part because Musk has moved so many of his other companies into Central Texas.

Musk confirmed in 2020 that he had moved to Texas, and has been moving or expanding his business ventures into the Austin area over the past several years. This includes automaker Tesla and the Boring Company, which are both now headquartered in Central Texas. He also has set up offices in the region for aerospace company SpaceX and neurotechnology company Neuralink. His private foundation also moved to Austin in 2020. SpaceX has also long hand sites in South Texas and near Waco.

Dan Ives, an industry analyst with Wedbush Securities, said a dual headquarters in Austin and San Francisco is likely the path for Twitter moving forward.

"Musk spends so much time in Texas this would make a ton of strategic sense in our opinion," Ives said.

Ives had predicted the move before the Twitter deal officially went through, saying it makes sense to move or expand Musk's newest company into his growing ecosystem in Austin.

More:Will Elon Musk's Boring Company dig a tunnel in Austin? Here's what we know

Is Elon Musk 'more at home with Texas culture than California?'

Musk does spend a significant amount of his time in the Austin area in particular, though he says he lives in South Texas. While Twitter has taken much of his focus in recent weeks, between March 2021 and September 2022 Musk spent more time in Austin than anywhere else, according to his flight log.

Roger Kay, a technology analyst with Endpoint Technologies Associates, also said it's likely Twitter's presence in Texas will grow, whether Musk formally moves the corporate headquarters or not.

"I think it’s fair to say Twitter’s presence in Texas will grow," Kay said. "It’s where his other companies are and where he spends more time these days. I also think he’s more at home with Texas culture than California. Whether it’s called a headquarters or not doesn’t much matter. Being near the boss is always good politics."

When the Twitter deal closed this month, Thom Singer, CEO of the Austin Technology Council, also said it's reasonable to think Musk would make a place for Twitter in the Austin area. Such a move would benefit the Austin technology sector, he said.

Texas Gov. Greg Abbott also encouraged the idea.

"@elonmusk. Bring Twitter to Texas to join Tesla, SpaceX & the Boring company," Abbott said in a tweet.

Jim Schwertner, rancher in rural Williamson County, even promised Musk free land if he moves Twitter's headquarters to Schwertner, an unincorporated community in Williamson County, east of Jarrell. Before the deal closed, the rancher tweeted that Musk could have 100 acres free of charge for Twitter's offices. When the deal closed, Schwertner took to Twitter to reiterate the offer.