Whereas America is a “nation of laws, not of men.”

Whereas the Constitution of the United States and the rule of law provide for and guarantee that “we the people” possess and shall exercise the powers of self-government through the free and fair elections of our representatives.

Whereas citizens of the United States of America have a duty to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States and the rule of law.

Whereas the Constitution’s separation of powers provides that the Congress, the Executive, and the Judiciary each serves as a check and balance on the other two branches of government.

Whereas the independence of the Supreme Court and the Federal Judiciary is essential to constitutional government and the rule of law.

Whereas our government shall uphold the ideals of equality under the law and equal justice for all.

Be It Resolved that American citizens have a duty:

To accept the legitimacy, respect the authority, and abide by the decisions and judgments of the federal courts interpreting the Constitution and laws of the United States.

To respect the rule of law by honoring the truth and speaking against untruths that undermine respect for the Constitution, the rule of law, and the courts of the United States.

To oppose any and all efforts by false accusation, threat, or similarly to undermine respect for the federal courts and the individual justices and judges who serve on the courts of the United States.

To support and defend the fundamental American principle that no person is above, beneath, or beyond the law.

To respect, support, and defend the constitutional rights of all Americans.

To accept, honor, and respect the results of elections by the American people.

To respect, support, and insist upon the peaceful transfer of power upon which our constitutional republic is premised and depends.

To respect, support, and defend the right of aggrieved candidates to invoke the judicial process to challenge the results of elections and the corresponding obligation of such candidates to respect the resulting decisions of the courts of law.

To hold government officials, political leaders, candidates for high office, and leaders of the political parties responsible and accountable for the preservation, protection, and defense of the Constitution and the rule of law, and for adherence to the constitutional principles of America’s great experiment in democracy and constitutional self-government.

To affirm and reaffirm that the duty and responsibility of government and governmental officials is to the Constitution, the rule of law, and to the American people, and that it is the duty and responsibility of all public officials to serve all citizens, irrespective of their political party or other affiliation, association, or identity.

To honor America by preserving, protecting, and defending the Constitution of the United States, the rule of law, and America’s democracy.