December 8, 1939 from among the employees of OKB N.N. Polikarpov and State Aviation Plant No. 1 create a special design department (OKO) under the leadership of Artem Ivanovich Mikoyan. Deputy Mikoyan was the designer Mikhail Iosifovich Gurevich. The day of December 8, when the order was signed on the creation of OKO, is considered the founding day of the Experimental Design Bureau, now the Engineering Center “Design Bureau named after A.I. Mikoyan. ” Over the years, the MiG Design Bureau has become one of the most authoritative centers for combat design aviation in the world. Combat vehicles developed in the design bureau became the basis of the air force and air defense forces of the Soviet Union and several dozen other states. Suffice it to say that all 60 MiG aircraft of all types and modifications were built. Since 1996, Design Bureau named after A.I. Mikoyan became part of an integrated structure, which in 1999 was transformed into the Russian Aircraft Corporation MiG.

Founding fathers Artem Mikoyan and Mikhail Gurevich

The first aircraft designed by the new OKB - MiG-1 (I-200). In the photo - the first prototype of the I-200 in factory tests in the 1940 year.

Created on the basis of the MiG-1, the MiG-3 fighter took an active part in the air battles of the first half of the Great Patriotic War. On the MiG-3, Alexander Ivanovich Pokryshkin, one of the best aces of the Red Army air force, won his first victory.

22 May 1944 of the year issued a decree of the State Defense Committee on the development of Soviet jet aircraft. The first Soviet fighter with a turbojet experienced I-300 - the future MiG-9.

A real triumph was the creation of a MiG-15 jet fighter, the first domestic serial fighter with a swept wing. In the skies of Korea, the MiG-15 brought the MiG design bureau to world fame. Such a car flew such Soviet aces, forgotten heroes of the Korean War, as Nikolai Sutyagin, Evgeny Pepelyaev, Sergey Kramarenko.

1950-e - the era of the conquest of supersonic. The first Soviet serial supersonic fighter MiG-19. The photo shows Egypt-supplied MiG-19 over the pyramids.

The most common combat jet aircraft in the world is the MiG-21. Flying warrior of the Vietnam War.

Built on conscience: the MiG-21 is still in the ranks of the Air Force of India and other countries.

The 1960's fashion is not a miniskirt, but a variable sweep wing. Fashion sets the Soviet MiG-23.

1970-e - Soviet time records. Fighter-record holder MiG-25, just on this type of aircraft set 29 world records.

1989 year. In the air in the Alaska region, the symbol of the power of the Soviet Air Force in the 1980 is the MiG-29.

And in the Luftwaffe were also MiGs.

The guard of the northern air lines of the Motherland fighter-interceptor MiG-31.

Unfulfilled dream 1990-x - a multifunctional front-line fighter.

2014. Lukhovitsy. The birth of a new MiG.

http://bmpd.livejournal.com/1088975.html

Our news channels

Subscribe and stay up to date with the latest news and the most important events of the day.

25 comments

"Right Sector" (banned in Russia), "Ukrainian Insurgent Army" (UPA) (banned in Russia), ISIS (banned in Russia), "Jabhat Fatah al-Sham" formerly "Jabhat al-Nusra" (banned in Russia) , Taliban (banned in Russia), Al-Qaeda (banned in Russia), Anti-Corruption Foundation (banned in Russia), Navalny Headquarters (banned in Russia), Facebook (banned in Russia), Instagram (banned in Russia), Meta (banned in Russia), Misanthropic Division (banned in Russia), Azov (banned in Russia), Muslim Brotherhood (banned in Russia), Aum Shinrikyo (banned in Russia), AUE (banned in Russia), UNA-UNSO (banned in Russia), Mejlis of the Crimean Tatar people (banned in Russia), Legion “Freedom of Russia” (armed formation, recognized as terrorist in the Russian Federation and banned), Kirill Budanov (included on the Rosfinmonitoring list of terrorists and extremists), the International LGBT public movement and its structural divisions are recognized as extremist (decision of the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation dated November 30.11.2023, XNUMX)

“Non-profit organizations, unregistered public associations or individuals performing the functions of a foreign agent,” as well as media outlets performing the functions of a foreign agent: “Medusa”; "Voice of America"; "Realities"; "Present time"; "Radio Freedom"; Ponomarev Lev; Ponomarev Ilya; Savitskaya; Markelov; Kamalyagin; Apakhonchich; Makarevich; Dud; Gordon; Zhdanov; Medvedev; Fedorov; Mikhail Kasyanov; Dmitry Muratov; "Owl"; "Alliance of Doctors"; "RKK" "Levada Center"; "Memorial"; "Voice"; "Person and law"; "Rain"; "Mediazone"; "Deutsche Welle"; QMS "Caucasian Knot"; "Insider"; "New Newspaper"