Imperial Teen had their hands full leading up to 2007’s The Hair the TV the Baby and the Band. The album came five years after their previous one — seemingly an eternity for today’s music lovers. But guitarist Roddy Bottum was writing music for TV and film, drummer Lynn Truell had kids, bassist Jone Stebbins started a haircutting business and guitarist Will Schwartz was working with hey willpower.

Things are no different now. The San Francisco-based indie pop veterans continue to juggle multiple priorities, but after another five years they’ve embraced the lifestyle. They’ve got a new record on the way — Feel the Sound, out today — and it promises to be full of tracks that exist because of this chaos. Not in spite of it.

“Honestly, it was almost recorded like a chain letter record,” Schwartz told Wired. “We’d record something, leave it for a few months, then forget what we’ve done so we could come back to it kind of fresh to finish the task. We mapped it out to start but then would experiment with vocals, instruments, keyboard sounds, whatever we felt a song called for. When it started coming together during the mixing, it had a pretty full sound. A big sound. I like how it came out.”

Schwartz said the band’s formula for Feel the Sound was different than anything they’ve done before. Schwartz himself had to travel back and forth from New York every few months to simply reunite with his fellow band members, and the record took multiple years to produce with everyone’s outside obligations. The results mark new area for the band.

“To me it’s melodic, similar to other records in that some of the songs are quite pop,” he said. “But those we recorded within a structure — take a couple weeks, do all the tracks, mix it — and this definitely had a different energy to it. It’s reflected in the final product. I think you can figure out which songs were instead built up during the recording, creating drum loops then vocal experimentation and different effects buried in there.”

The band’s first single off Feel the Sound doesn’t make the potential guessing game easy. “Runaway” features signature Imperial Teen vocal harmonies, with the entire band singing the main lyrics. This vocal track takes a melodic riff from the opening keys and then trades it (in a few slight variations) between the guitars and bass. The band could claim the song was built off a single idea during months of experimentation, but it’s just as conceivable for the subtle complexity of “Runaway” to have been thoughtfully structured from the start.

Imperial Teen – Runaway by MergeRecords

Lost Pop Culture

If you ask folks at Merge Records, Schwartz comes up quickly as one of the label’s pop culture aficionados. The band’s long history — Imperial Teen first broke onto the scene in the mid-1990s — means his life’s been a part of pop culture for quite some time. Keeping in line with his day job, the first item that comes to mind for Schwartz when talking Relic Wranglers centers directly on a music icon.

“The Karen Carpenter film — the Barbie doll one, I saw a copy of it while I was in college,” Schwartz said. “That was hard to find growing up, but it was really cool to see. I think Richard Carpenter stopped the circulation of it because it painted him in a bad light, but it was such a cool thing by an established filmmaker [Todd Haynes]. It was also kind of scandalous.”

Based on Imperial Teen’s meticulous recording process, it’s no surprise Schwartz’s interests lie in hearing the lost early works of some landmark songwriters. He rattles off names like Phil Spector, Burt Bacharach, Dione Warwick and Elton John. Some of them eventually released this kind of material (for example, Spector has the boxed set Back to Mono with previously unearthed material) but he’s confident a lot of it still waits to see the light of day.

“Generally I like finished stuff because I’m so obsessed with pop music and I like to hear it in its glory,” he said. “But for great songwriters like that, I’d like to hear it a bit more broken down — the rehearsal kind of stuff. They did a lot of that in straight takes, so I’m sure they have lost recordings.”

Tracks can go unreleased because musicians are constantly writing and often things develop between unrelated projects, Schwartz said. He has songs like this himself — hey willpower B-sides that would never work for an Imperial Teen release or tracks that don’t quite fit either group. Could be why he’s working with a third project called Psychic Friend currently.

“I definitely have some lost tracks,” Schwartz said. “I’m a weird guy because I have a lot of different projects that move around within genres. My music is compartmentalized … an Imperial Teen song can’t necessarily move into a Psychic Friend or hey willpower context. So I start doing projects, make a group of songs then move on to the other to do the same. It’s a race to get them done and some stuff doesn’t fit.”

Imperial Teen’s Feel the Sound hits stores today. Stream it now at Spin.com and find select tour dates via Merge Records.