The New Republic of Texas

Texas

República de Texas Motto: "Friendship" Anthem: Deep in the Heart of Texas

File:TXRMap.png

Territorial Map of Texas Capital. Austin

Largest City. Houston(Population)

Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington(Metro Area) Official languages English, Spanish Recognized regional languages All others Demonym Texan Plural Texan Government

- President

Republic

John R. Whitmer

Formation

- New Republic

April 17th, 2002 Area

- Total

513,247

Population

- 2010 estimate

.

31,000,000

GDP (PPP)

- Total

- Per capita 2010 estimate

$1.426 Trillion

$46,000 Gini .29 HDI (2009) .998(very high) Currency

Texian (₮) Drives on the Right Internet TLD .tx Calling code +1

The New Republic of Texas is a collection of four states from the former United States. The states making up Texas are all apart of EPA's Region 6, but the only exception is Lousianna. It was founded in 2002, by John R. Whitmer the current president of Texas. The people speak English and Spanish. Both of these languages are mandatory before graduating elementary school. The current population is thirty-one million, and most are Anglo or have Mexican Heritage. Texas is one of the worlds most technologically advanced nations and unlike other North American countries, is not in a state of economic recession or debt. The largest city by population is Houston and the largest by metro area is Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington. The capitol is Austin, and all transit is somehow derived to or from the city.

Economy[]

Texas is a huge user of Methane Energy, and is where the method came from. Texas' once great oil fields are technically obsolete, and somewhat unused. The main source of revenue for the government is by sales tax, and property taxes are very low. The biggest kind of companies in Texas include; Shrimping, Fishing, Cotton Farming, Ranching, Farming in General, Tourism, and Leather. For more on Texas' economy please see Texan Economy.

Politics[]

Texas is a Republic consisting of two branches; Presidential and Congressional. The Presidential Branch is checked by the Congressional Branch and vice versa. The President resides within the Presidential Branch and cannot pass a law, declare war, or pardon a convict without the Congressional Branch's say or vice versa. The Congress is made of one hundred and sixty congressmen and all are elected from the two regions that the Republic is divided into. Eighty come from each region, and twenty from each quadzone that the region is divided into. Only on special occasion does the President have the power to declare war, and that is when a nation sneak attacks Texas or even attacks Texan holds. Elections for president happen every eight years, and the president-elect must spend two days with the current president to see what life is like. All laws are stated in the Texan Constitution of 2002. By order of the New Republic Texas Treaty, Texas and ceding states are formed into the New Texas Republic.

Military[]

Culture[]

Technology[]