Libya / Misratah /

World / Libya / Misratah / Misratah , 6 km from center (مصراتة) World / Libya

city Add category

Misrata (also spelled Mizurata or Misratah) is a city in Misurata District in northwestern Libya, situated 210 km to the east of Tripoli on the Mediterranean coast near Cape Misurata.

Misurata in a history book

Misurata City is one of the commercial stations, which entered the Phoenicians in the establishment on the north-western parts of the Libyan coast in the tenth century BC and so she may be more than three thousand years. The city known then as "Tubakt" and derived its importance from being a crossroads of so many vital roads and it also mediates an agricultural area mentioned as the "Kayvalai Bromentoriom" in the documents named (the lengths of the spaces in the great sea) Stadia Samos Marcy Mjagni "in the fourth century BC any that mentioned in those documents dating back to more than two thousand and three hundred and fifty years, which is the oldest sources stating that the "Palace of Ahmed

"And has been found so far.

It was described by geographical "Strabo" in the first century AD as a head covered with tall forest and a large Gulf of Sirte. As the report by "Ptolemy" geographical, known as "Traeron Akron" (ie the heads of the three) as it consists of three heads from the land far back into the sea was inhabited by a tribe "Missouratp" became known as the name of this tribe Misurata, a name that you know it now it is also known as the " sand

"Because there are many sand dunes of white and yellow

Misurata, Jihad heroes

And I have such a history of Misurata in the era of Italian colonialism in Libya a bright page in the history of Jihad, Libyan and Arab alike, and has emerged from her children's leaders Ofdad in the fields of jihad was the best known and most popular figure known to Libyan Jihad against the occupier, the Italian man of singular intelligence is the ability. Ramadan, your Alsteioi and which has helped the Italians. losses is not the most important of all. The battle Alkarzabip it was a one blow to the occupation of the Italian. which invited him to re-examine how his presence in Libya, a position giving rise to the first Republic in the Arab world in all pride, namely the Republic of Tripoli On 18 - 11-1918 patient and good.

Republic became Tripoli to join the brigade under which all officers and national armies and thus raised the banner of Jihad, Libyan Almuahd under the chairmanship of one of your one.

Nearby cities: