February 19, 2022 · Doors open at 7:00 pm

The Black Crowes Revival

THE BLACK CROWES stormed onto the music scene in 1990 and revived the art of rock and roll perfected in the 70’s by acts like The Rolling Stones, The Faces, and Humble Pie. Led by brothers Chris and Rich Robinson, they toured relentlessly and gained a very dedicated following. After selling over 35 million albums and playing to a legion of diehard fans, they ultimately disbanded in 2015. 2019 saw the Robinson brothers reunite with a new backing band and an upcoming world tour starting summer 2021.

THE BLACK CROWES REVIVAL formed with the vision of bringing a vintage 90’s era Black Crowes concert experience to both their devoted fans, and to those never lucky enough to see them perform. We are veteran musicians that have performed in various bands in the San Diego and Los Angeles music scene, and are committed to providing a show worthy of the Black Crowes legacy as “the world’s most rock’n’roll, rock’n’roll band”. We pay strict attention to our gear (using vintage guitars and amps), our sound, our vibe, and our performance, in order to accurately reproduce the Crowes experience. We cover the highlights of the Crowes catalog and deep cuts, too. Our song list continues to grow. We provide a full concert experience to excite and satisfy both casual listeners and diehard Black Crowes fans alike.

Aerosmythe

Aerosmÿthe is a tribute to Aerosmith, the most classic of all American rock bands. We provide live entertainment to audiences throughout Southern California at various venues, from large to small. We pride ourselves on producing an authentic Aerosmith sound and projecting the feel and excitement of the original music.

Oceans

OCEANS is a local San Diego band that has strived to recreate the passion and sound that made Pearl Jam one of the most iconic bands of our time. Our goal is to enhance and introduce the power that is Pearl Jam. Whether or not the crowd consists of ravid fans or first time listeners, everyone will feel “Alive” at the end of the show!