Background

Lionsgate Home Entertainment is the home video distribution arm of Lionsgate Films. At first most of their releases were only released by them in Canada, while in the United States, they licensed their films to Universal Pictures Home Entertainment for home video distribution, with the exception of Dogma, which was released by Sony Pictures Home Entertainment; after Lionsgate merged with Artisan Entertainment, they began to distribute (Lionsgate continued to market and sell its own titles) via 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment; this deal expired following the latter's purchase by Disney in 2019, resulting in Sony Pictures taking over that role. It is currently the British distributor for Walt Disney Studios Home Entertainment and its sister labels, including 20th, through Elevation Sales, a joint venture with StudioCanal.

1st Logo (1999-2004)

Visuals: Against a dark blue starfield background, several stars swirl around to form the Lionsgate lion logo, which zooms out. Some more stars that turn from white to gold zoom out and arrange themselves on the logo, and the words "LIONS GATE FILMS" (with "GATE" in Garamond) flash in at the top right of the lion. A burst of light wipes in a white line with "HOME ENTERTAINMENT" and the byline "A LIONS GATE ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY" underneath it. The words sparkle a bit.

Technique: CGI.

Audio: A majestic, ethereal synth theme, coupled with whooshing and shining sounds. Composed by Robert J. Walsh. On some Canadian releases from that time period such as the VHS releases of Stickin' Around: Volume 2 and Volume 3, it uses the music from the Avalanche Home Entertainment logo with additional sound effects added.

Availability:

This appears on mainly Canadian VHS and DVD releases (and later US releases) of Lionsgate material such as Strictly Ballroom, Breakin' the Law, and the first two seasons of The Dead Zone.

It makes an appearance on the 2001 Platinum Disc Corporation DVDs of American Eagle and Merchants of War.

It also appears on DIC Home Entertainment DVD releases from 2001-2002. The VHS counterparts use the next two logos.

It also makes an appearance on the 2004 Artisan DVD of Step Into Liquid, as it was released during the Artisan-Lionsgate transition.

2nd Logo (August 28, 2001-2004?)

Visuals: On a black background, several stars join together at the right of the screen to form the constellation of the lion. As this happens, the Lionsgate lion logo, in white, fades in. "LIONS GATE", "HOME ENTERTAINMENT" and "A LIONS GATE ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY" fade in, with all but the byline in the Bernhard Modern typeface.

Technique: CGI.

Audio: The music from before.

Availability:

This appears on the Sabrina, The Animated Series VHS releases Sabrina in Love and Salem's World (the Sabrina's World DVD uses the previous logo) as well as Mummies Alive! (the DVD version also uses the previous logo) which both came out on the same day.

It also shows up on the screener VHS release of Madeline's Halloween Spooktacular (the retail release uses the next logo).

It also appeared on the 2004 DVD releases of the horror movie Cement and Quicksand (even though the packaging for that release has Artisan Entertainment logos).

It also appears after the DVD menu on the 2001 DVD of Bruiser (the previous logo appears before the menu).

3rd Logo (2001-2006)

The Care Bears' Big Wish Movie (2005)

Visuals: On a black background, the words "LIONS GATE HOME ENTERTAINMENT" fly in one by one away from the viewer, with stars moving into place while the Lionsgate lion logo fades in. After that, the byline "A LIONS GATE ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY" fades in below and the logo shines.

Technique: CGI.

Variants:

A widescreen version exists. This can be seen on some DVD releases.

An in-credit still version appears at the end of The Care Bears Big Wish Movie with white text.

Audio: Several loud whooshes, as well as sparkles and a warbling synth track.

Audio Variants: On The Care Bears' Big Wish Movie and the Barbie films (from The Princess and the Pauper to The Barbie Diaries), the logo is silent.

Availability:

This appears on many LGHE VHS and DVD releases from the era, such as the first two Saw movies, the original Cabin Fever, Hail Caesar, the first two seasons of ALF, the Ultimate Editions of the first three Rambo movies, the Special Editions of Air America, Highlander 2, Stir of Echoes, Universal Soldier and Red Heat, Lil' Pimp, Beyond the Sea, Deeply, The Weight of Water, Bully, State Property, Monster's Ball, Confidence, Cube 2: Hypercube, American Psycho II: All American Girl, and The Aristocats.

It appears on DIC Home Entertainment VHS releases from 2001-2002. The first three DIC VHS releases from Lions Gate (the Sabrina and Mummies Alive! ones) use the previous logo, and the DVD counterparts all use the first logo.

It makes an appearance on the Jakks Pacific one-episode disc of the SpongeBob SquarePants episode "Hall Monitor" if one looks through the disc's files.

It doesn't appear on the 2004 DVD of Force of Evil, as that uses the Artisan Entertainment logo instead.

4th Logo (October 5, 2004)

Visuals: A still version of the previous logo is shown, with the text in a slightly different font, and the constellation and byline are in green.

Technique: A still, digital graphic.

Audio: The end theme to the movie.

Availability: It appears at the end of Care Bears: Journey to Joke-a-Lot. It doesn't appear at the end of the North American DVD release.

Final Note