MIAMI BEACH (CBS4) – Solange Knowles is tweeting mad at the Miami Beach Police Department. According to the R&B singer, she was the victim of discrimination after an officer allegedly pulled a weapon on her for doing "nothing illegal" and now there's an internal affairs investigation.

The Miami Beach Police Department confirmed Monday that it was investigating an incident which involved Solange Knowles, the younger sister of pop-superstar Beyonce Knowles.

The incident, according to police, took place after Knowles was not allowed inside "Club Cameo" on South Beach Sunday night because she was carrying a five-foot tall inflatable banana. Police claim Knowles got angry and she claimed the reasons she wasn't allowed in the club were racially motivated.

In a press release, Miami Beach Police Department spokesman Juan Sanchez stated officers who worked off-duty at the club escorted Knowles across the street to "further the conversation, where Ms. Knowles claims one of the officers pulled a "weapon" on her, not a firearm, and threatened to deflate the banana."

The younger Knowles took to Twitter to express her anger over the incident, which she claimed was the result of "discrimination."

"I have literally had my last leg with discriminating police! Miami police department will be notified," she first tweeted. "A police officer just pulled a weapon on me.... I have done NOTHING illegal, against the law, or anything of the sort."

Knowles' public rant against the police lasted for nine tweets.

"I'm only tweeting this to raise awareness. I could have left quietly, but I am sick & tired of this scenario being played over & over again," she wrote. "It is time to do something about it. I am a mother raising a young black child in America. I'm going to die trying!"

In her tweets, Knowles indicated that she had the name of the officer who pulled the weapon and would be filing a formal complaint.

Sanchez confirms Knowles contacted the Miami Beach PD regarding the incident and the Internal Affairs Unit will be contacting her regarding her allegations.

No other information about this incident will be released from Miami Beach PD, said Sanchez, due to the Internal Affairs Investigation.

When Knowles originally tweeted the officer was from Miami, many thought the allegations were against the City of Miami, not Miami Beach.

Cmdr. Delrish Moss, spokesman for the Miami Police Department, clarified Monday in a statement that Miami PD was not involved.

"Over the weekend, the lion's share of the mainstream and entertainment media reported that the Miami Police Department had a confrontation with Solange Knowles, the sister of Beyonce Knowles of record and movie fame. We have investigated and found that this incident DID NOT occur in our city," Moss said in a written statement.

Knowles is known for her singing and dancing career and appearances in films such as Johnson Family Vacation. On Sunday night, she did also tweet about her big sister's surprise pregnancy announcement at MTV's Video Music Award Show (VMAs).

"One.And.Only. I could not possibly be more proud. Tears in my eyes," she tweeted.