When you look at a map of Tel Aviv, you could easily be forgiven for thinking the north of the city ends at the Yarkon River. This long river, the largest coastal river in Israel, meanders its way from Tel Afek (Antipatris) in the center of the country to the Mediterranean Sea, coursing through the picturesque Yarkon Park at the end of its route.

It looks for all intents and purposes like a natural northern boundary for the city. But it’s not. There’s more to see north of the Yarkon River including some of the most interesting and engaging attractions in Tel Aviv.

And they include the following five sites we wholeheartedly recommend you visit, all within walking distance of the river, such as:

The Eretz Israel Museum

Situated in the Ramat Aviv neighborhood (where Golda Meir once lived), the Eretz Israel Museum focuses on the culture and history of Israel. It includes exhibitions that explore local identity, Judaica, folklore, cultural history, traditional crafts, ethnography, anthropology, and archaeology, among other things.

It’s an ideal place to visit if you want to learn more about historical artifacts found in the region and how they were originally made, including recreations of the methods used.

Also on the grounds of the museum is an archeological site, Tell Qasile, which features the remains of an ancient port city dating back over 3000 years.

The Palmach Museum

Just along the road from the Eretz Israel Museum is the fascinating Palmach Museum. It’s different to many museums you’ll visit in that it’s designed to be experiential rather than passive. A group of actors guides you through the exhibits and multi-media rooms, portraying the personalities and stories behind the legendary elite “strike force” of the unofficial, para-military Haganah.

The Palmach played a vital part in Israel’s struggle for independence and this museum is dedicated to their bravery and their memories. It’s important to reserve tickets in advance.

The Yitzhak Rabin Center

Situated on a hill overlooking the Yarkon River and Tel Aviv is the splendid Yitzhak Rabin Center. It’s just a short walk from the two aforementioned museums and provides a fascinating insight into both the life of assassinated Israeli prime minister Yitzhak Rabin and the history of the State of Israel.

There are hundreds of photos, videos, multimedia displays and more, which guide you through the story of Rabin and his beloved country. It begins in the 1920s, taking you through to the building of the State, its growth, its wars, its flourishing, and on through to the fateful day in 1995.

The Museum of the Jewish People at Beit Hatfutsot

A few minutes’ walk north of the Palmach Museum is the large Tel Aviv University campus. Within the grounds is the thoroughly interesting Museum of the Jewish People, which as the name suggests details the history of the Jewish People. It explores the cultures, stories, identities, and even the humor found within the Jewish diaspora, both past and present.

You’ll get to learn more about Jewish heroes from history, modern culture, science, religion, and a lot more.

Luna Park

If you’re visiting north Tel Aviv with children, then they’re sure to love Luna Park. What better way to give your intellectual mind a rest after a museum visit than by enjoying some fun amusement park rides? Luna Park is situated on the northern edge of the Yarkon Park.

There are exhilarating rides for all ages and plenty of fun activities and things to eat.