Samuel West has been incredibly successful in the acting and entertainment business over the years. From starring in the long running series Midsomer Murders, Waking the Dead and Poirot, to his stint in Netflix's The Crown, he now spends his time playing the role of eccentric veterinary surgeon Siegfried Farnon in Channel 5's popular period drama, All Creatures Great and Small.

The 57 year old has been a staple part of the cast since the show premiered in 2020, with filming taking place in the quaint and quiet Yorkshire Dales.

However, in reality, Samuel's actual life is a far cry from his All Creatures Great and Small character.

From his famous parents to his romance with his Olivier award winning playwright partner, here's everything you need to know about Samuel West's life off screen.

Samuel has very famous parents

It was almost inevitable that Samuel would end up with some sort of career in the arts, thanks to him being born to famous actor parents.

For those who don't know, Samuel is the son of Prunella Scales - who is best known for playing Sybil Fawlty in the BBC comedy, Fawlty Towers - and Timothy West, who has appeared in both Coronation Street and EastEnders.

Alongside being successful actors, both Prunella and Timothy were also appointed CBEs for their services to drama.

Samuel has appeared on stage alongside his parents numerous times, with his mother in Howards End and Stiff Upper Lips, and his father on stage in A Number, Henry IV, Part 1 and Part 2. Plus, in two films, TV's Over Here in 1996, and Iris in 2001.

The 57 year old seemingly comes from a long lines of actors, too, as his grandfather, Lockwood West was also a famous performer.

Samuel's partner is an award winning playwright

Samuel has been in a long term relationship with British playwright, Laura Wade. The two lived together from 2007 to 2011, however temporarily split up.

The couple reconciled in 2013, and now share two daughters, the first born in 2014, and the second in 2017.

In terms of Laura's professional career, she has penned plenty of successful plays, with her achieving her first West End debut in 2012, with the updated version of Posh.

Then, in 2014, the play was adapted into the film The Riot Club, which grossed $3.5 million at the box office.

Award wise, Laura is the recipient of the prestigious Olivier Award. She won the Best Comedy prize in 2019 for her play, Home, I'm Darling.