Click here to submit your class note

2018 | 2010 | 2006 | 2004 | 2001 | 2000 | 1999 | 1998 | 1997 | 1996 | 1995 | 1994 | 1992 | 1991 | 1988 | 1987 | 1985 | 1984 | 1983 | 1982 | 1981 | 1979 | 1978 | 1977 | 1976 | 1975 | 1974 | 1973 | 1972 | 1971 | 1970 | 1969 | 1968 | 1967 | 1966 | 1965 | 1964 | 1963 | 1962 | 1961 | 1960 | 1959 | 1958 | 1957 | 1956 | 1955 | 1954 | 1953 | 1952 | 1951 | 1950 | 1949 | 1948 | 1947 | 1945 | 1944 | 1943 | 1942 | 1938 | Friends of the college

2018

Charles Michael Hilt — Minneapolis, MN, passed away August 23, 2021. Survived by parents Mike and Susan Hilt and siblings Calvin and Sawyer, Charlie was the beloved grandson of Robert and Elaine Hilt and Fred and Carol Stark, as well as uncles John, Ken, Geoff and Steve, and aunts, Genny, Stephanie, Becky and Tara, and cousins Clay (deceased), Ted and Allie, Amanda, Jacquie, Johnny, and Layla. Born in Wisconsin, Charlie was an avid Packers and Bucks fan. During his time living in Chicago, he got to see the Cubs win the World Series. His favorite thing to do was spend time with family and many friends from high school and Carthage College, where he was President of Tau Kappa Epsilon fraternity. After graduation Charlie went into investment banking. Charlie was a snappy dresser with a keen, eclectic sense of style. He loved sports, politics, music, working out and great food, especially his 'Momma's'. He loved the family poker games, which he always won. His parents count themselves very lucky to have had Charlie to dinner two or three times a week, including a Sunday dinner ritual, during the last few years. Charlie's enthusiasm for life and the love he had for everyone around him, including Fluffy, will live on. He will be forever missed, forever loved.

Submitted: December 7, 2021

2010

Samantha Jo (Falcone) Reid — Antioch, IL, passed away on March 1, 2022. She was born in Racine, December 11, 1984, daughter of Louis and Susan (Klyzub) Falcone. Samantha was a graduate of Wm. Horlick High School "Class of 2003." She furthered her education receiving a B.S. in biology, Summa Cum Laude from the University of Missouri-St. Louis, "Class of 2007" and earned her M.S. in education from Carthage College. On December 30, 2006 she was united in marriage to her soulmate Michael J. Reid Jr. at St. Joseph's in Racine. She taught and served as Dean at Tremper High School in Kenosha. She was last employed in pharmaceutical sales at Abbvie. Mike and Samantha welcomed their son Dominic in March of 2012. She started Breathe Love to bring more awareness to CF and help families affected by this devastating disease. She was loved beyond measure. Samantha was the ultimate example of love, kindness, heroism, faith, and compassion to her husband, son, family, and anyone lucky enough to cross her path. Even in the worst situations she found good in everyone. Samantha helped make great strides toward a cure for cystic fibrosis. Left with broken hearts and a devastating void are her husband, Michael; son, Dominic; parents: Louie and Sue Falcone; in-laws, Diana Reid (Hector) Gonzales; siblings: Nathan (Katie) Falcone, Mario (Mariah) Falcone, Danielle Falcone (Greg), Gabby (Greg) Lauer; sister-in-law, Tiffany Reid; niece, Giuliana Lauer; other relatives and many dear friends. She was preceded in death by her brother, Nicholas Frank Falcone (2015); Nana, Frances Klyzub (2022); and father-in-law, Michael Reid Sr. (2006).

Submitted: March 9, 2022

2006

Heather M (Jefferson) Barker — Racine, WI, passed away peacefully on December 24, 2018.

Submitted: March 24, 2021

2004

Douglas "Jake" Jacobsen — Ridgefield, WA, and his brother-in-law, Richard "Rick" Streissguth, died in an automobile accident Sat., Dec. 5, 2009 in Montana. Family members were traveling to acquire a new addition to their family's passion for restoring antique fire engines. Doug "Jake" Jacobsen would do just about anything for the people he loved. Family and friends were the most important thing to him. Doug made his home in the Ridgefield, WA area where he pursued many of his passions: restoring cars and fire engines, traveling with friends and family, and raising animals on the farm. He graduated from Camas High School in 1978 and Carthage College in 2004, Magna Cum Laude, with a Bachelor of Arts degree. Doug started his career with Snap-on Tools in the early 90's advancing to his current position as Business Manager. He would say, "Snap-on isn't a job, it's a way of life!" He loved the business and his extended "tool family". He was a great husband, son, brother, and uncle-always dropping whatever he was doing to help someone else. Survived by his wife, Kay, of 24 years; mother, Pat and Ken Price; father, Gary and Marilyn Jacobsen; three siblings, Gary Jacobsen, Laura Hanning (Lance), Dani Clifton (Todd); step-siblings, Carrie Cramer (Paul), Nicole Wedel (Rob), Vince Cramer (Maria); nieces and nephews, Trent, Gina, Alyssa, Denali, Kenny, Nicole Eddy (Jesse), Jacob Hanning (Sunny), Mckenzie and Sage. Doug's in-laws include, Kay's parents, Dick and Marilyn Streissguth; brother-in-law, Steve (Kathy); sister-in-law, Jen; nieces and nephews, Brian (Lisa H), Lisa, Mackenzie and Jacob.

Submitted: March 24, 2021

Randall Lee Kessenich — Kenosha, WI, passed away on June 18, 2022, at Brookdale Memory Care after a 10-year battle with Frontal Temporal Lobe (FTD) Dementia at 73 years of age. Born in Waunakee, WI on August 6, 1948, he was the son of Robert H. and Lillias (Fitzgerald) Kessenich. Randy served in the US Army in Vietnam from 1969 to 1971 and was honorably discharged. In 2018, he was able to participate in the Stars and Stripes Honor Flight to Washington, D.C. which he thoroughly enjoyed. On July 2, 1987, he married Mary Gastaldi '85 in Kenosha. This year would have been their 35th Wedding Anniversary. For many years, Randy was very active at St. Peter's Church where he was an usher, Eucharist Minister, and taught CCD. He worked tirelessly for seven years at the kids games at the church festival, helping Mary get the games set up and then running the basketball booth of which he was very proud. Randy is preceded in death by his parents, and is survived by wife, Mary Kessenich and two sons, Christopher and Joseph.

Submitted: June 27, 2022

2001

T. Skeat Clark — Bradenton, Fla., formerly of Palatine, Illinois, passed away peacefully on March 19, 2021, surrounded by his family. Skeat is survived by his loving wife, Andrea Morano, beloved daughter, Gianna, parents, Tyce and Mary Clark of Bradenton, Florida, in-laws Pam and Steve DeWall of Muskegon, Michigan, and Greg and Lesley Morano of Norton Shores, Michigan, brother Eric (Susan Irey), both Carthage class of 1996, of Arlington Heights, Illinois, sister, Austin (Brandon) of Sarasota, Florida, nieces Sarah, Carthage class of 2024 and Emma of Arlington Heights, Illinois, and many other family members who dearly loved him. Skeat graduated Carthage College, class of 2001, Kenosha, Wisconsin, and served in the US Coast Guard before moving to Bradenton. He worked closely with his father in the real estate business. Throughout his life Skeat was active in sports including football, wakeboarding, snowboarding and skydiving. Skeat immersed Gianna in the BMX bike racing community and gave her the appreciation to explore and enjoy life. Skeat had such love and pride in her accomplishments. Skeat fought Thymoma Cancer and Myasthenia Gravis with courage, dignity and determination. Throughout his illness his wife, Andrea, has been invaluable in her love and steadfast support. His kindness and generosity will be remembered by family and friends and live in our hearts forever.

Submitted: March 24, 2021

2000

Peter C Rosengren & Maura (Rosengrin) — Batavia, IL, passed away March 30, 2021.

Submitted: April 9, 2021

1999

Jamie (Walrath) Coberly — South Beloit, IL, passed away January 8, 2024.

Submitted: January 25, 2024

1998

Brent Meder — East Dundee,IL, nicknamed “Mad Dog”, passed away in July 2020. He will be missed dearly.

Submitted: August 2, 2023

1997

Kirsten A. Auld — Enoch, UT, passed away June 6, 2021. She was 45 years old and was born to Bev and Dick Auld on August 6, 1975 in Urbana, Illinois. Kirsten grew up in St. Paul and Arden Hills, Minnesota. She graduated from Carthage College in Kenosha, Wisconsin with a degree in studio arts and continued studying silversmithing in the MFA program at the University of Georgia in Athens. While in Georgia, she developed an interest in cooking, and received her Culinary Arts degree from the Art Institute of America in San Diego, CA. Kirsten pursued her cooking as Chef and Kitchen Manager in Athens, GA, San Diego, CA, St. Cloud, MN, and most recently in Cedar City, Utah. Kirsten loved nature, animals, and was a free spirit always giving of herself and helping others. She always had a brood of various pets: cats, her beloved dog Maggie and other dogs, rats, hedgehogs, frogs, fish, guinea pigs and so on. She treated them and cared for them as if they were her babies. Everywhere she lived she enjoyed the nature of that place, whether it was the beach in San Diego or the North Woods in Minnesota. Kirsten loved fishing, boogie boarding, camping, four wheeling, hiking, gardening, and just about anything outdoors. Everywhere she lived, she seemed to find stray animals. She would always make sure that she found those animals a forever home. Her love of nature and animals was a driving force in Kirsten's life. Kirsten is survived by her family: parents, sister, aunts and uncles, cousins, nephew and niece, Godparents and friends.

Submitted: July 14, 2021

Curtis B. Sanders — Kenosha, WI, passed away August 22, 2021. He was comforted by his son, Brent Sanders, daughter-in-law Hannah Sanders, and partner Georgene (Gigi) Christensen. Curtis was born on January 19th, 1950 in Helena, Montana, where he spent the better part of his childhood and early adult years, growing up with many groups of friends, building, racing, and wrecking as many cars as they could find. He was truly a wild and fun-loving spirit. Curtis was well-educated and passionate about his studies, graduating Magna Cum Laude from Carthage College in Kenosha with his degree in accounting, all the while supporting his young, growing family. Curtis was the definition of a family man, devoting his time and focus to his two children, Brent and Bettina, and then-wife Debra. Life took him many places, oftentimes bouncing between his beloved Montana and Wisconsin, but his home was always wherever his family settled. In his later years, he enjoyed watching his family grow, seeing his two children find happiness in love, playing with and guiding his two young grandchildren, Lillian and Maximillian as well as continuing to provide a gentle, guiding hand to his children as they followed their own paths. Also, a product of the free-love era, maintaining his love of classic jams, he often participated in and organized karaoke and singing events to pay tribute to his outspoken and rebellious generation. Curtis was a friendly, social man who could have a conversation with anyone about anything and could find a friend in anyone. Curtis will be deeply missed by his remaining family - ever a steady, supportive, guiding light in their lives. His memories will be cherished, and legacy carried by his son and grandchildren.

Submitted: September 7, 2021

1996

Darrell J Erdman — Middleton, WI, passed away February 11, 2020. Darrell was born on Aug. 5, 1960, in Milwaukee, Wis., the first of four children to Charles "Chuck" and Marilyn (Kubczak) Erdman of Waverly, Iowa. He married Teresa "Terri" Beasley on May 18, 1985, at St. Andrews Catholic Church in Murphysboro, Ill. Together they raised two beautiful, loving sons, Michael Travis of New York, N.Y., and Christopher Jordan Erdman of Columbus, Ohio. Darrell lived life to the fullest. He loved elk hunting in Colorado with family and friends, and he was at home fishing on either Lake Michigan or Lake Erie. He was an avid sports fan and supporter of the Packers, Badgers and Cleveland Indians. On his final road trip, the Packers defeated the Seahawks in the playoffs. He also loved music, making an annual pilgrimage to Chicago (2009–2016) with his sons and Terri for Lollapalooza with 90,000 of his closest friends. Darrell battled his disease bravely and was shy to tell others how sick he was. Ever optimistic, he only had "good" and "better" days, even in his final week. He was a kind, generous man, a loving and dedicated father and husband who will be missed by many. In addition to his devoted wife and sons, Darrell is survived by his parents and a loving family: brother, Scott (Karrie) Erdman of Oconomowoc, Wis.; sisters, Sheryl Dooley of Shelbyville, Mich., and Shelly (Michael) Suttles of Boyce, La.; plus nephews, Donald Dooley (Brittany), Cole Dooley, Jacob Erdman, Cody Suttles (Alexa) and Tyler Suttles and daughter, Paisley; a niece Jessica Lang (Steve) and Carson Dooley (son of Michael); and doting aunts, Shirley Huegli, Alice Hofmaier, Jean Aucutt, and Geraldine Ubick; plus many cousins. He was preceded in death by his grandparents; a nephew, Michael; a niece, Kayla; and aunts and uncles.

Submitted: January 15, 2021

1995

Robert Lee Duncan , Jr — Chicago, IL, passed away on May 14, 2007.

Submitted: March 24, 2021

Sandra (Poquette) Grasser — Kenosha, WI, passed away on May 7, 2022. She wore many hats throughout her career including wedding pastry chef, salon manager, and Hospice Volunteer Coordinator. She was active in the Girl Scout Council of Kenosha County, during which time she received the St. Anne Award from the National Catholic Committee of Girl Scouts/Archdiocese of Milwaukee. She is survived by her husband of 50 years, Robert W. Grasser, their three children, Rita (Grasser) Hipple, Christopher Grasser, and Joann Grasser, and her many grandchildren.

Submitted: May 26, 2022

1994

Patricia Delancey — Kenosha, WI, passed away March 24, 2023.

Submitted: September 27, 2023

Jennifer Lynn (Wiltse) Liebenow — Crystal Lake, IL, passed peacefully at 48 years young, January 27, 2021. First diagnosed with breast cancer at age 38, she was in remission for five years when the cancer metastasized to the liver and then bravely fought another 5 year battle. It was a courageous and humbling fight with the dignity Jennifer possessed. Jennifer was born to James and Judith Wiltse in Des Plaines, IL on July 22, 1972, along with her twin sister Janet (Boksa). She grew up in Mount Prospect with two watchful older brothers, Patrick and Richard. She attended Carthage College and found her love of teaching. She planted roots in Crystal Lake, IL at Richard Bernotas Middle School, where over the course of her 25 year career she taught Special Education, Technology and STEM. Jennifer valued education, completing several educational certificates and a master's degree. Jennifer's selflessness was shown by her ever-present willingness for volunteering and coaching. Over the course of two decades at Bernotas, Jennifer consecutively coached boys' and girls' city league basketball. In addition, she coached and managed the track and cross-country seasons. A love of children, teaching and sports was not the only contribution she offered School District 47, at her passing Jennifer was Vice President of "CLETA", teacher's union. Her life experience drove her passion for health care for teachers and their families. Jennifer is survived by her daughter Camryn Rose Liebenow and Chad Spaulding '92

Submitted: February 5, 2021

1992

Frances Marie Kroll — Montmagny, Quebec, passed away peacefully in her home on June 14, 2022. She was born in Quebec, Canada to parents Estelle and Eugene Thibault. At the age of ten, after her mother passed, she was adopted by her aunt Marie Reger, where she then proceeded in schooling in Wisconsin. She retired from SnapOn in 2004. Frances is survived by her husband, William Kroll; her daughter Jeanne Nerison; and her son John Kroll.

Submitted: June 20, 2022

1991

Maryann (Caudill) LoGuidice & Tom (Loguidice) — Dubuque, IA, passed away on July 02, 2021. Maryann was born on December 10, 1942, in Detroit, Michigan, where she lived until the end of high school. In her life she also lived in Florida, Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Iowa. For 25 years she served as a program assistant to care service professionals in the states mentioned. In 1991 she received the BA in sociology and religion from Carthage College in Kenosha, Wisconsin. Following graduation she became a Commissioned Lay Leader serving first in the Unitarian Universalist Fellowship of Dubuque and then as a Liason to churches in Iowa, Minnesota, and Wisconsin for the Prairie Star District Unitarian Universalist. In Dubuque she was noted for serving as President and many other roles of Dubuque Congregations United (DACU). For several years she chaired the annual local Church World Services CROP Walk for Hunger relief. She was also a member of Dubuque Branch NACCP. At the time of her death, she was a continuing member of the DACU and Mission Boards. She was a “friend” of the Quad Cities Unitarian Universalist Congregation. The minister Rev. Jay Wolin and Maryann both appreciated the role of humor in the spirit of life. She was a longtime fan of the Milwaukee Brewers Baseball team. Frequent visits to American Family Field, listening to sports announcer Bob Uker on the Brewer Network, and joking with Cub fans (“the flubbies”) were entertainment in life. Maryann helped others in all walks of life. She personified her life theme of “Humor and Grace will save us all.” Those left to cherish her memory include many members of the Dubuque religious communities, her husband and best friend Tom, Dubuque, and loved son “Tony” Clarence, Portland, Oregon. Maryann was preceded in death by her father Clarence Caudill and her mother Laura (Crump) Caudill. Her father was always remembered as the “cutest guy in the world”.

Submitted: August 9, 2021

Karen J Scholey — New Berlin, WI, passed away November 24, 2020. Born in Kenosha, on July 23, 1956, the daughter of Gerald and Audrey (Brever) Schmalfeldt. She was educated in Kenosha schools, graduating from Gateway Technical College and Carthage College with an associate's degree in Computer Programming and a bachelor's degree in Business Administration. On May 28, 1983, she married Jim Scholey. Karen brought brains and brawn to her several workplaces. She was a computer programmer for Snap-On, Triclover, Walgreens headquarters and Kohls headquarters. She worked in operations for Macwhyte and was a teller at Kenosha National Bank. She enjoyed sewing, crafting, cooking, and bowling. She was enthusiastic about vacationing and traveling. She was a life-long learner and devoted volunteer to many organizations including Southeast Wisconsin Kinship Care. Above all else she enjoyed being surrounded by her family and friends. She is survived by her husband, Jim; parents, Gerald and Audrey Schmalfeldt; siblings, Kim Oien, Gary (Kimberly) Schmalfeldt, Kathy Edwards, Phillip (June) Schmalfeldt, and Bret Schmalfeldt; and one aunt, Joyce (Dick) Flynn; she is further survived by other loving friends and family. She was preceded in death by her brother in-law, Jerry Oien; and two aunts, Dorothy Angelo and Jane Hoff.

Submitted: January 15, 2021

David M Schultz — West Bend, WI, passed away January 5, 2021. David was born October 10, 1969 to Donna and Darrell Schultz, Neenah. David attended Armstrong High School and graduated in 1987. While in school, he participated in Swing Choir, a number of plays, and also plays created through Neenah's Park and Rec. He was an excellent singer and piano player and could play the piano upside down. David attended Carthage College graduating with his bachelor's degree in business and continued his education at UW-Oshkosh receiving his master's degree in business. David was employed at American Sewer in Menominee Falls as their customer service and sales representative. Previous to this he held numerous other positions at Mayville Metals, Harley Davidson, Johnson Controls, and American Family. David is survived by his mother, Donna; his sons: Zachery and Isaac; sisters: Deb (Tom) Heller and their children Ryan, Andy (Kadi, Finley and Wyatt), David (Desiree and Delaney), Denise (Paul) Rasmussen and Denise's son, Eric (Becky, Jaxon, Mason) Kramer; and a brother, Darrell Schultz. He was preceded in death by his father, Darrell; and numerous aunts, uncles, and friends. The family would like to extend a sincere thank you to Sue and Pete Utecht and their family for their love, support and friendship with David.

Submitted: January 15, 2021

1988

Dorothy (Schaefer) Buddenhagen — Waukegan, IL, died on April 11, 2020. Dorothy Schaefer was born on June 24, 1933 in Topeka, Kansas, to Paul and Estella Schaefer (nee Oberhelman). The family moved to East Moline where her father worked in the Rock Island Arsenal during the war. Dorothy earned a degree in Elementary Education from the University of Iowa where she met and married the love of her life, Jerold Buddenhagen. For many years she taught in the Waukegan public schools, including a lengthy stint as a regular substitute teacher. Following retirement Dorothy was a substitute in special education. Shortly after moving to Waukegan, Dorothy and Jerry joined Redeemer Lutheran Church. Throughout her adult life she was active in all aspects of Redeemer's ministry. For many years Dorothy was in charge of the youth choirs. In recent years she was involved in two Bible studies where her faith deepened. Dorothy was a talented seamstress. Many treasure her creations, especially the aprons with the towel attached. All of the proceeds from the sale of these lovingly crafted items went to MS research. She always had a place in her heart and home for one or more cats. Her other interests included reading cozy mysteries, tending to her flowers, and everything pertaining to music. For many years she was an avid supporter of Art Wauk and all aspects of the arts in Lake County. Dorothy was accomplished in both the piano and clarinet. For many years she served as principal clarinetist with The Waukegan Symphony Orchestra. Dorothy was a volunteer piano teacher at the Family Piano Store. Dorothy leaves to cherish her five children: Karl (Gay Cooper), Kathy Walter (Gregg), Paul (Heather), Ruth (Will Hughes) and Barb Cannon (David). She was so proud of her six grandchildren: Rachel, Karolena and Alex Hughes, Zac Buddenhagen, and Cody and Kara Cannon. Dorothy is also survived by her sister Mary Schaefer. She was predeceased by husband Jerold (2003).

Submitted: March 24, 2021

Scott Googins — Middleton, WI, passed away on Tuesday, Jan. 26, 2021, at UW Hospital of a traumatic brain injury. He was born on June 7, 1965, in Madison, the son of Sharon and Dan Googins. A few years later he became a big brother to Dawn Googins. Scott grew up in Madison and was a graduate of Madison West High School in 1983. He completed coursework at UW-Madison and Carthage College and graduated in Computer Technology from Control Data Institute in Minneapolis, Minn. Scott married Theresa Aldrich on June 3, 1989. His first daughter, Kyra, was born in 1992, and second daughter, Amber, in 1995. He enjoyed going on trips with family and friends. Scott began working at Wisconsin Copy and Business Equipment, Inc. He then worked at US Cellular from 2006-2013 starting as a Network Operations Manager and then as a Senior Network Field Engineer. Scott started his own business in 2013 contracting technical and consulting services to Cellular Companies in the Midwest. He most recently worked for Quality Cellular and Cellular Sales. Scott had a love for muscle cars, and with a close friend, spent years rebuilding a 1972 Pontiac GTO which was featured on the front of Motor Trends Magazine. He took the GTO to car shows in the summers and won various awards. Scott was a loyal Packers and Badgers fan and would cheer them on any time he could. He was a member of Asbury United Methodist Church, and for several years participated in the pen pal program. Scott made meaningful connections with 4th grade pen pals where eventually he shared his interest in fishing with them. Scott is survived by wife, Theresa; daughters, Kyra and Amber; mother, Sharon; sister, Dawn; and many other family and friends. He was preceded in death by his father, Dan.

Submitted: February 19, 2021

Richard G. Kakouris — Janesville, WI, passed away July 19, 2021. He was born in St. Louis, MO on September 4, 1962, the son of Gus and Irene (Sarich) Kakouris. He married Michele M. “Shelly” Momsen on September 24, 1988. Rick obtained a Bachelor of Science Degree from Carthage College, and went on to Cardinal Strich University where he received his Masters Degree in administration. He taught Social Studies at Parker High School for 5 years and then Craig High School, teaching in the SWS Program. He was the ultimate educator, who had a way of connecting with students (“his kids”). Every interaction with Rick was genuine; making people feel validated and “seen”. The lives he touched are immeasurable. He was a volunteer at St. Patricks’ Catholic Church for confirmation and retreats. He was a trivia whiz, football coach and referee. He started the Anime Club at Craig High School, enjoyed historical reenactments and was a co-owner of the Janesville Renaissance Fair. Rick was active with the technical productions in Janesville Little Theatre and volunteer-bartender at JPAC. He managed the scorebox for Janesville Hockey and also helped with security for numerous events around Janesville and the Bristol Renaissance Faire. He enjoyed camping and exploring new places, especially Hawaii. Rick is survived by his wife, Shelly; 2 children; Cody (Cattie) Kakouris of Madison and Avery (fiance, Lydiah Snyder) Kakouris of Janesville; mother-in-law, Nancy (Terry Hollenbaek) Momsen; father-in-law, Bob (Jeanne) Momsen; brother-in-law, Jeff (LeAnne) Momsen; his niece Mackenzie; his GSM family; and so many others who saw Rick as a mentor, a “big brother”, or a father figure. He was preceded in death by his parents.

Submitted: July 26, 2021

Michelle Jean Smith — Waukesha, WI, passed away January 5, 2022. She was born April 19, 1966 to Ervin Dale and Gloria Jean “Jimmy” (nee Graser) Smith in Waukesha. She was a Waukesha South High School graduate. She then attended Suomi College for 2 years and earned her associates degree in human services, she was grateful for the many friends she made there. She furthered her education at Carthage College and earned her bachelor’s degree in psychology. Her heart for people and strong determination led to a very full and rewarding career. Working as a Psych Tech first for Willow Glen, then Charter Hospital and finally Waukesha Memorial Hospital. She continued her career as a Mental Health Counselor, then as an Economic Support Specialist for Waukesha Co. Finally, she worked for Molina Health Care as an Iris consultant. No matter where she worked, or who she worked with, she was the “go to” employee. She was a devoted mother and friend to all; always thinking of others before herself. Her brother Curt is quoted saying, “she was the strongest person he ever met. Through all adversity, she remained strong and was a true leader.” She was a member of Bridge Church where she made great relationships and grew her already strong faith. Her love and passion for others was apparent throughout her entire life. She will be immensely missed by her children Kayla A. (Lawrence) Glymph and Chandler J. Smith. She was the beloved sister of Lynne (Robert) Brandt, Ervin Loren Smith Sr., and Curt Dale Smith. Her special nieces and nephews Tracie (Brian) Zimmer, Ervin Loren Smith Jr., Colleen (Michael) Reinelt, Bradley (Beth) Brandt and 8 great-nieces and nephews. She is further survived by her dear cats Bella, Riggs, Reggie, and Jaxson. She was preceded in death by her parents Ervin and Gloria “Jimmy” Smith and her dear cat, Gizmo.

Submitted: January 13, 2022

1987

Heidi Ann (Henschel) Pellett — Ellensburg, WA, passed away February 25, 2022. Heidi, daughter of Floyd and Gail Hope Henschel, was born September 19, 1964 in Beaver Dam, WI. Heidi loved and excelled in sports, particularly tennis, where she was a multi-year state qualifier graduating from BDHS in 1983. Heidi continued her tennis success while attending Carthage College where she played collegiate tennis, graduating in 1987 and being inducted into Carthage's Hall of Fame in 1997. At Carthage, she met the love of her life, Tracy Lee Pellett and they were married, July 24, 1988. Heidi helped others learn to love sports and activities by teaching physical education and health, and by coaching in the public schools for over 10 years. Heidi earned her Master's degree in Teaching at Ball State University and Doctor of Education degree at St. Mary's University of Minnesota. Heidi worked the last 20 years of her career at the university level as a teacher educator and achieved tenure and the rank of full Professor at Central Washington University in Ellensburg, WA. Heidi actively published and presented her research and scholarly works regionally, nationally, and internationally. Heidi's true passion was teaching. She was a caring educator who put her heart and extraordinary effort in seeing students succeed in and out of the classroom. Heidi's skills as an educator were recognized when she was awarded the Washington state Alliance for Health, Physical Education, Recreation and Dance (WAHPERD) – College/University Professor of the Year in 2012. Heidi was a bright and positive force with her colleagues as they elected her their Department Chair in Physical Education, School Health and Movement Studies. Most recently, Heidi was selected to lead the College of Education and Professional Studies at Central Washington as Interim Dean from 2020-2022. Heidi was most proud of the family she helped raise with her husband Tracy. Her daughter Abigail and son Avery were the true joys of her life and she was happiest when all four of them were together. Always ready for a new family adventure, Heidi was the trip planner, making all the arrangements for travel to sunny and distant vacations. Creating special moments and memories was vital to her life. Often displaying her radiant smile, Heidi enjoyed laughing, especially with Tracy, as they found humor in many things great and small. Heidi will be so terribly missed by her husband Tracy; daughter Abigail and husband Phillip Montoure; and son Avery; and her beloved parents, Floyd and Gail Hope Henschel. Heidi's four sisters and brothers-in-law: Holly and Charles Ledvina, Hope and Kim Kuck, Heather and Steven Bruemmer, and Hayley and Kris Jensen will forever feel incomplete without their chica Heidi.

Submitted: March 4, 2022

Nadine Doloris (Regel) Thorn — Zion, IL, passed away peacefully of complications of chemotherapy, surrounded by her loving family, on Wednesday, September 29, 2021. Nadine was born June 6, 1961 at Victory Hospital in Waukegan, IL; the daughter of Margie and David Regel. Nadine was raised in Winthrop Harbor. After graduating from Zion Benton Township High School class of 1979, she went on to attend Monmouth College in Monmouth, IL from 1980 to 1983 and Carthage College in Kenosha, WI where she earned her Bachelor’s Degree in Liberal Arts in 1984. In college, she was a member of Little Sisters of Sigma Phi Epsilon. On June 8, 1985, Nadine married the love of her life, best friend and high school sweetheart, Mark Thorn, at Our Lady of Humility Church in Beach Park. Together they made Zion their home. Nadine was a faithful parishioner of First United Methodist Church in Waukegan where she was a member of the Bell Choir. She worked several places in her life where she touched the lives of many. In high school she was a server at Long John Silvers, where Mark was a cook; later, she worked for Waukegan Blueprint in the Art Supply area. She did beach water testing for North Shore Sanitation and worked at Abbott Laboratories, making a difference in the lives of many, in AIDS and Hepatitis Research. Most recently, Nadine worked alongside her husband Mark, as the General Manager for Olson Comfort Services Heating and Cooling in Waukegan. She was a sponsoring mother of Rotary International to exchange students and young adults. Nadine was a gifted artist; sketches and stipple art being some of her favorites. She was also an exemplary athlete playing volleyball, softball, tennis and golf. Nadine had a gift for gardening; flowers from Mark’s grandmother still grow in their yard. She was a fantastic cook and loved animals, especially giraffes. Nadine served as a member of several organizations over the years. She was an original member of the Zion Liquor Commission, the Douglas Chapter of the Waukegan Garden Club and Zion Benton Moose Lodge. She was also lovingly referred to as the ‘heart and soul’ of Lake County Heating and Cooling Association. Nadine was a tutor at East Grade School, and a Sunday School Teacher for more than 25 years. She was a member of Ontonagon Valley Sportsmen’s Club in Bruce Crossing, MI and part of the Prayer Shawl Ministry at First United Methodist Church. She enjoyed hiking with Mark and her dogs, bonfires, kayaking, black licorice and snorkeling during her many travel adventures. She was a stargazer and loved watching the shooting stars. Out of her love for crafting, “Nadine’s Notions” created many treasures that she sold at craft fairs in the area. Most importantly, Nadine was the founding mother of “Team Thorn” and “The Boys”. She was a beloved daughter, sister, wife, mother and grandmother that will be missed by all who knew her. Nadine leaves behind to treasure her memory, her husband of 36 years, Mark Thorn; sons, Luke Grayson (Angie Sue) Thorn, Matthew Elliott (Devan Reneeʹ) Thorn, and Paul Nicholas (Jennifer Marie) Thorn; grandchildren, Leo Grayson, Payton Nicholas, Lillee Nevaeh, Knox Graham and Beckett Jeffrey; mother, Margie Regel; brother, David Regel, Jr., sister, Kathleen Regel; brother, Anthony “Tony” Regel; mother and father in law, Sharron and John Thorn; many cousins, grand dogs and grand cats, and a host of special friends. She was met at the gates of Heaven by her father, David where she joined the aunts, uncles and cousins gone before her. Heartfelt thanks to the staff at Northwestern Hospital and all of those involved in her care and treatment; Rev. Dr. Barbara Morgan for her prayers and love when they were needed most.

Submitted: May 11, 2022

1985

Scott William (N/A) Staven — Helenville, WI, passed away December 22, 2021. He was born on Jan. 8, 1959, in Madison, the son of Roger and Patricia (Finn) Staven. Scott graduated from La Follette High School, Carthage College and the Police Academy. He worked as a police officer in East Troy and in Darlington, then worked construction, and ended his working career in sales. Scott was an Eagle Scout and a member of the Winnequah Gun Club. He loved trap shooting, hunting, fishing, vacationing at the family cabin up north, taking trips to Canada and cheering on Wisconsin sports teams. Scott is survived by his son, Michael (Sarah Papenfus) Staven; mother, Patricia; two brothers, Mark (Ellen) Staven and Chris (Bonnie) Staven; two nephews, Kyle Staven and Dane Staven; and three aunts, Carol Magnuson, Gayle Langkamp and Elaine Finn. He was preceded in death by father, Roger; and three uncles, Elmer Magnuson, Vince Langkamp and Bruce "Bud" Finn.

Submitted: January 10, 2022

1984

Stephen Strecker — Omaha, NE, passed peacefully in his sleep on October 26, 2022 at age 60 following a long road of diabetes complications. Steve was adopted as a child in Omaha, Nebraska by his parents, Kenneth and Nancy. He attended Carthage College in Kenosha, Wisconsin and graduated in 1984 with a business degree. He was a proud member of the Tau Delta Psi fraternity (The Buffaloes), which led to many close friendships. Steve was a longtime employee as an accountant at the Bradley Corp. in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin. He enjoyed golf, poker, fantasy sports, getting together with friends and remembering softball games, frequent trips to The Kentucky Derby or Las Vegas for March Madness. He is survived by his many friends who will always remember his caring good nature and incredible sense of humor.

Submitted: November 9, 2022

1983

Daniel Bell — Grand Rapids, Mich., passed away peacefully on May 13, 2022 surrounded by his loving family. He was ordained as an ELCA minister in 1989 and served as a pastor for churches in Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania for over 25 years. He is survived by his loving wife, Debby; daughter, Christiana; and sister, Jeanne (Curtis) Savenko. He was preceded in death by grandparents, Clifford and Imogene Bell and Ralph and Dorothy Engle.

Submitted: June 7, 2022

Lisa Heinze — Kenosha, WI, passed away May 8, 2021. Lisa was born on June 2, 1961 in Kenosha to Dr. Thomas and Joyce (Vignieri) Heinze. She was educated in Kenosha schools and graduated from Tremper High School and Carthage College. She worked for many years for Kenosha County at both the Courthouse and the Jobs Center. Lisa was an excellent cook and baker and will always be remembered for her great food. She was preceded in death by her parents. Lisa is survived by, her brother, Thomas Heinze; her cousins, Sandy and Kimmy as well as other relatives and friends.

Submitted: May 24, 2021

Lois L Topping — Lubbock, TX, Mrs. Lois L. Topping -- (Class of 1983) passed away November 30, 2020. Lois Laverne (Griffith) Topping was born September 3, 1929 in Wellman, Iowa to Floyd and Gertrude Griffith. Lois attended Wellman schools graduating with the Class of 1947. She met and married William ("Bill") Topping of Wellman on August 20, 1950 at the Asbury Methodist Church in Wellman. Bill, a U.S. Army veteran, served from 1951-1953, in the Central Intelligence Corps at Fort Holabird, MD. They then relocated back to Iowa from 1953-1967. During those years Bill was teaching and coaching in several Iowa school districts. Bill then taught at Gateway Technical College in Kenosha WI. Bill died on December 25, 2003. Lois received her Library Science degree from Carthage College, Kenosha WI, and worked in the college library for several years. She was involved with Wesley United Methodist Church (Kenosha), singing in the choir, and taking part in many more church activities. She was an avid bridge player and loved hosting guests. She was a member of the "Lois Club" (birthday cards), a group of women from all over the U.S. whose name was "Lois." Lois returned to Coralville/Iowa City, Iowa in 2006 to be closer to her brother Richard Griffith and other family members. Back to Iowa, the state she always loved and where she felt "at home." She was active in aquatic exercise classes, walking club, researching family genealogy, scrapbooking, photo albums, and much more. Bill and Lois loved the Iowa Hawkeyes and had season tickets for over 40 years. Driving to Iowa City from wherever they lived to spend the weekend, attending regular season games and several bowl games. Her nephew Andrew Topping accompanied her to many, many Hawkeye games, riding the Hawkeye Express Train. He was her "Buddy." Everyone who met Lois commented on how sweet and happy a lady she was. "Everybody loves Lois" was a common refrain. Lois is survived by her children: Jeffery Topping (Phoenix, AZ), Stuart Topping (Madison, WI.), Susan Topping Crowder (Lubbock, TX). Grandchildren: Samuel and Joseph Topping; Samantha Villalba, Sharayah, Caleb, Emma and Joshua Crowder.. Great grandchildren: Hunter, Kyleigh, and Madison Villalba. Brother: Richard Griffith (Gilberta). Brother-in-law: Bob Topping (Judith). She also is survived by several nieces and nephews.

Submitted: January 15, 2021

1982

Mary Arredondo — Kenosha, WI, passed away surrounded by her beloved family on November 4, 2022. She was a wonderful friend, kindergarten teacher, wife, mother, grandmother, and great-grandmother, and will be sorely missed by all who knew her. Mary is survived by her husband of 60 years, Jose; daughter, Nelda (Ron); son, Arnie (Kathie Fifer); grandchildren: Alex, Crescent, and Ian; and great-granddaughters: Miles EvelynNoelle, and Felix Alene. She is further survived by her sister Rosa Gonzales; and brothers: Rodolfo DeLaGarza and Manuel Rubio. Mary graduated from Carthage in 1982 with a B.A. in Spanish and Elementary Education. She went on to teach both bilingual and regular kindergarten with the Kenosha Unified School District. Mary was always extremely proud of her Carthage education.

Submitted: January 14, 2023

1981

Janet L. (Faber) Behling — Antioch, IL, passed away June 20, 2021. Janet, daughter of Gene and Jacob (Ruth) Faber, was born October 1, 1943 in Waukegan, Illinois. In 1964 she was brought into the kingdom of God's grace through the sacrament of Holy Baptism at Christ Lutheran Church of Paddock Lake, Wisconsin. Janet publicly confessed her faith in Christ in the rite of Christian Confirmation at Peace Evangelical Lutheran Church of Wilmot, Wisconsin in 1967. She spent most of her childhood in Kenosha, Silver Lake and Paddock Lake, Wisconsin. After graduating from Wilmot High School, Janet worked in banking in the Kenosha area. On June 17, 1967, Janet was united in marriage to Donald Behling. They made their home in Antioch, Illinois, raising four children Bartley (Carla), the late Susan (Randy) Appleby, Bradley (Erika), and Sarah (Adam) Johnson. Janet spent the early years of her marriage raising her children but returned to school first at College of Lake County graduating with an Associate of Arts degree and then continuing at Carthage College in Kenosha graduating with an education degree in 1981. She returned to school later in her career, graduating with a Master of Education degree in 1996 from National Louis University and an Education Certificate of Advanced Study from the same institution in 1999. Janet was a dedicated early childhood educator in local public and private schools working first as kindergarten teacher and then working to develop the Center for Early Education and Development (CEED) for Antioch District 34 where she served as its Early Childhood Coordinator and grant manager. She retired from teaching in 2008. After her retirement she continued to contribute to the field as an adjunct instructor of early childhood education for Kendall College. A woman of deep faith, Janet was an active member of Faith Evangelical Lutheran Church for over 50 years. She also volunteered as a board member with the Lake County Literacy Program working as their Family Literacy Chairperson and she served as a member of the Antioch Woman's Club. Most of all, Janet cherished time spent with family and friends. Her compassion and empathetic nature along with her willingness to listen and support made her the person many called upon when needing a sympathetic ear. Her favorite place to be was wherever her grandchildren were. Janet is survived by sisters: Betty (Dennis) Avery and Rita (Tom) Tucker; sons: Bart and Brad; daughter, Sarah; daughters-in-law: Carla and Erika; and sons-in-law: Henry, Randy, and Adam. She is further survived by 13 grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. In addition to her parents, Janet is preceded in death by her husband, Donald; daughter, Susan; and sister, Katherine Heffernan.

Submitted: June 30, 2021

1979

Lorraine Hollingsworth — Kenosha, passed away May 31, 2020. Though her given name was Lorraine, most people in the Kenosha community knew her as "Holly". Lorraine was born on February 27, 1929, in Elma, Iowa to Alfred and Ella Bachmann. She was the oldest of three girls that grew up on the family farm. She graduated from Riceville High School in Riceville, Iowa in 1947 and from Allen Memorial Lutheran Hospital School of Nursing in Waterloo, Iowa in 1950. Lorraine did post-graduate work in Maternity care at the Margaret Hauge Maternity Center in Jersey City, New Jersey. She also received NAACOG Certification as a Certified Nurse in Obstetrics in 1976. Lorraine graduated from Carthage College with a BA in Social Work in 1979. Her passion for nursing and helping others began during high school when she worked summers with her Aunt Erma Bachmann Manning, a Nurse who managed the Elma, Iowa Hospital. She began her RN career as the PM Supervisor at Allen Memorial Hospital in Waterloo, Iowa from 1951-1953. It was at Allen Memorial Hospital she met her future husband John W. Hollingsworth who also happened to be an RN and the Head Surgical Nurse at Allen Memorial. They were married on April 11, 1953, at St. Paul's Lutheran Church in Maple Leaf, Iowa and later moved to Kenosha, Wisconsin. In 1954 their only son John was born. Lorraine's career as an Obstetrical Nurse and Obstetrical Supervisor at both Kenosha Memorial Hospital and St. Catherine's Hospital began in 1953 and ended when she retired in 1999. Her passion for nursing never really ended. If anyone was blessed to have given birth in Kenosha during those years, there is a good possibility that Holly helped to care for you and your baby and maybe eventually your grandchildren. In 1970, Lorraine saw a need for prenatal care for mothers. To meet that need she volunteered her time to offer "Holly's Childbirth Classes" that met at Grace Lutheran Church. Lorraine founded a nonprofit organization, Pregnancy-Childbirth-Childcare-Parenting Inc. that provided prenatal education to families in Kenosha from 1980 to 1986. St. Catherine's Hospital eventually named her the Maternal-Child Outreach Coordinator in 1987 and PCCP was dissolved. Lorraine was a volunteer member of the Kenosha Unified School District School-Aged Mother's program that started in 1970. She provided medical information to the expectant teenaged mothers enrolled in the Kenosha School System. She was very proud to be a part of this program. She was recognized by the community as Kenosha Woman of the Year in 1979 for her volunteer work providing prenatal care to families and students in this program. Retirement fostered her passion for volunteer work in the community and for dancing. She served on the Board of Directors for the Easter Seal Society, drove for the Volunteer Transportation Service, volunteered at Aurora Hospital and the Kenosha Senior Center, and her beloved Grace Lutheran Church--the Food Pantry, Baby Moses program, Church Council, Dorcas (quilting group) and Bible Study Group J. The week after she retired she declared that she was going to take tap dance lessons. She was part of a group of women that would perform a tap-dancing show anywhere, anytime. She also performed in numerous dance recitals in Kenosha and Northern IL. She loved ballroom dancing. On most weekends she could be found dancing with her friends at VFWs in Antioch and Kenosha, the Hiawatha in Racine, the Kenosha Senior Center, and the Moose in Kenosha. Lorraine met a new dance partner Roy Anderson. They got engaged and planned to marry. Tragically Roy had an accident at his home and passed away. She loved working in the yard, putting puzzles together, driving her John Deere lawnmower, and nursing her raspberry patch so she could make pies and lately talking with family on Face Time. Lorraine was preceded in death by her husband John W. Hollingsworth, her parents Alfred (Ella Groth) Bachmann, sister and brother-in-law Avis, and Melvin Johnson, brother Fred Bachmann, fiancé Roy Anderson and many close friends. She is survived by her son John A. Hollingsworth (Debbie) Harvard, IL, granddaughter Emily J. Hollingsworth of Fort Atkinson, WI, Emily's boyfriend Michael Winters of Fort Atkinson, WI, her sister Ila (James) Van Kilsdonk, Phoenix, AZ and many cousins, nieces and nephews. She will be especially missed by her very dear friends Mike and Trish Cannon and their children Jordan and Jenna, who provided unending assistance and support to Lorraine.

Submitted: January 25, 2021

Jon Ryberg — Cherry Valley, IL, passed away peacefully on May 13, 2022 surrounded by his loving family. He was born on September 10, 1957 in Mt. Morris, IL where he enjoyed a childhood filled with love from his parents, Reverend Ralph and Margaret Ryberg. Jon was passionate about golf and a lifelong Packer fan, and he loved spending time with his granddaughters. He is survived by his wife, Sally; children Robert, Kristin (Garrett Reese) and Jonny; stepson Matthew (Katie) Cecchinelli; and granddaughters, Genevieve and Illa Cecchinelli. Jon was preceded in death by by his parents and sister, Karen.

Submitted: June 7, 2022

1978

Peter M. Jonas , PhD & Nancy (Jonas) — Milwaukee, WI, passed away April 22, 2021. He is survived by his wife Nancy; daughters Katie (Andre) and Melanie (Sean); son Kevin (Katie); grandchildren Elyse, Clara, Davis, Nina, Ian, and Cole; one grandchild-to-be; mother Nancy; sister Sara; and brothers Jack, Tim, and Dan and their spouses. He was preceded in death by his father Jack. Peter was a devoted husband, father, grandfather, and professor. His greatest pleasures in life were helping and spending time with his family, the Green Bay Packers, and his Harley motorcycle. Peter was born and raised in Ripon, Wisconsin, before earning a bachelor's degree from Carthage College and doctorate from Marquette University. Peter was committed to his career in higher education and loved using humor in his teaching pedagogy. He served in a number of roles during his 41 years at Stritch: associate dean in the College of Business, director of institutional research, and coordinator of strategic planning and assessment. In 1998, Peter helped launch Stritch's doctoral program. As a professor, he shaped the lives of countless students, forging lasting friendships with many along the way.

Submitted: April 28, 2021

1977

Thomas A Frederickson — Pleasant Prairie, WI, passed away November 25, 2020. He was born on August 10, 1946, Thomas was the son of the late Frederick and Edith Fredericksen. He was a graduate of Mary D. Bradford High School and Gateway Technical College. On February 14, 1997, Thomas was united in marriage to Cynthia Oros. He was a member of Good Shepherd Lutheran Church. Thomas proudly served his country in Vietnam in the US Navy from 1964 until his honorable discharge in 1966. After being discharged from active duty he served in the Naval Reserves until 1970. Thomas was employed as a Detective with the Kenosha Police Department and retired after 30 years of service. He was a member of the Navy Club Ship 40, VFW Post 7308, American Legion, Kenosha Explorer Scouts and Danish Brotherhood Lodge 14. Thomas was very active in Veteran's Affairs, enjoyed working on old cars and tractors, and loved spending time with family and friends. He is survived by his daughter, Suzanne (Brian) Vergenz; his brother, James (Linda) Fredericksen; his father-in-law; Lee (Beverly) Oros; his brother-in-law, Rick (Angela) Oros; his sister-in-law, Kathy Oros and many cousins, nieces, godchildren and friends. In addition to his parents, Thomas was preceded in death by his wife, Cynthia (Oros) Fredericksen and his sister, Mary Christensen.

Submitted: February 12, 2021

Mike Henderson — Denver, CO, went home to Heaven on Oct. 19, 2023, after a yearlong battle with cancer. Mike played soccer and was active in Tau Sigma Phi while at Carthage. He is survived by his wife Nancy ‘78, son Michael, daughters Alison (Henderson) Teague ‘04 and Andrea and four grandchildren.

Submitted: November 7, 2023

Ruth Pauline (Spitzer) Hoefer — Oro Valley, AZ, passed away December 26, 2021. She was born on June 11, 1922 in Kenosha, Wisconsin to Gustav and Agnes Spitzer. Following the high school graduation of her son William, Ruth returned to college at the age of 54. She graduated with a Bachelor's Degree in business administration from Carthage College in Kenosha. She was a devoted mother, wife, daughter, sister, grandma, and great-grandma. She dedicated her life to the service of others. For many years, she enjoyed working as a beautician in the small town of Kenosha. Upon graduating from college, she began working for Tri Clover Credit Union where she built lifelong relationships with the people and families she met. Ruth was an avid card player, cherished spending time with her family and friends, and loved attending church and fellowshipping. Ruth embodied the purest of hearts and spread joy and happiness to everyone who knew her. She had an infectious smile and unabated generosity that was extended to everyone she met. She will be forever missed, forgotten never, and loved always. Ruth is survived by her granddaughter, Stacy Kraft (Daniel); great-granddaughters, Savannah and Sadie and a great-grandson, Jason. Ruth was preceded in death by her husband, Roland "Roly"; son, William "Billy"; daughter-in-law, Judith "Judy" and grandson, Troy.

Submitted: January 10, 2022

Denis E. Morrison — Erwin, TN, passed away May 7, 2020. He was the son of the late Edwin and Elaine Williamson Morrison. Denis lived most of his life in Zion, Illinois before moving to Erwin in 1988. He was a United States Army Veteran. Denis was a police officer in Zion, Illinois with twenty years of service before his retirement in 1988. He also worked as a probation officer for five years, working under General Sessions Court in Washington County and Unicoi County. Denis attended Fishery Community Church. In addition to his parents, he was preceded in death by his first wife, Golda Morrison in 2010. He leaves behind to cherish his memory, his wife of eight years, Theora "Teddy" Morrison; her children: Phyllis Dyer, Lewis Hitts, Paul Hitts, Foster Hitts, Walter Hitts and Jeffery Hitts; step-son David Milligan (Anna); one sister, Karen Anderson; thirty grandchildren and five great grandchildren.

Submitted: May 7, 2021

Jeffrey Vanko — Hampshire, IL, passed away peacefully on January 23, 2021. He was the beloved husband of Patti for 39 years; and the loving father of Joe and his wife, Melanie (nee Laird). Jeff graduated from Adlai E. Stevenson High School and attended Carthage College. He worked for the United States Post Office for 41+ years. He started as a letter carrier in Deerfield, was a delivery analyst at Carol Stream and Postmaster in St. Charles and Elburn. He retired in 2012. Jeff enjoyed cooking- especially for a crowd, planting vegetables in his garden and numerous fruit trees in his yard. He was happiest when he was outside on his John Deere tractor or lawn mower. Jeff is also survived by his brothers, John and Jim (Kelly); nieces, Barbara Beal, Susan Beal (Mark Swenson), Jennifer Vanko, and nephew, Jimmy Vanko. He was preceded in death by his infant daughter, Julie; parents, John and Shirley (nee Hanson); and sister, Jayne. We'd like to thank the many doctors and nurses at Northwestern Medicine Delnor Hospital for taking such good care of Jeff over the years. His family and friends will miss his sense of humor, sage advice and culinary skills.

Submitted: February 5, 2021

1976

Jacqueline C Erickson — Kenosha, WI, passed away on June 15, 2012.

Submitted: March 24, 2021

Laurie (Hrdlicka) Knudson — Volo, IL, passed away September 12, 2021 at the age of 67 after a three year battle with cancer. She was born in Beloit, Wisconsin on July 21, 1954 to the late Bernice (Coppersmith) and Glenn Hrdlicka. She was a graduate of Maine Township High School West in 1972 and attended Carthage College in Kenosha, Wisconsin, graduating in 1976. Laurie's career of over 40 years was spent in the insurance industry. Laure enjoyed vacationing in Jamaica and the islands each year, bringing the tropical feeling back into her home. Her favorite downtime activities were her love of her dogs and her home. She also loved gardening, holiday decorating, and was known for her collection of Barbie Dolls. She leaves behind two older sisters, Diane Hrdlicka of Washington state, and Sherry Swickard of California, brother-in-law Joseph Swickard, niece Gail Swickard of California, and a nephew Mark Swickard of Tennessee. Laurie was preceded in death by her husband Kevin Lee Knudson. Laurie will be greatly missed by many friends who all had a special place in her life and heart, especially her long-time friend Kris Welk.

Submitted: March 23, 2022

1975

Carolyn L Fenske — Racine, WI, passed away December 4, 2020. Carolyn was born on July 2, 1937, in Kenosha, she was the daughter of the late Michael and Vega (Tolf) Loewen. She was a graduate of Mary D. Bradford High School, Racine Kenosha County Teacher's College, and Carthage College in 1975. In the late 1950's and early 1960's, she taught second grade at Paris Grade School. Later, Carolyn worked as a secretary for the Chancellor of UW-Parkside for 22 years until her retirement. She attended St. Paul's Lutheran Church. She enjoyed spending time with her family and keeping busy around the family farm. Carolyn is survived by her two sons and their wives, Mike and Mary (Arbet) and Glenn and Jan (Swoboda) Fenske; six grandchildren, Mitchell, Marcus, Lynden, Michael, Aaron and Madison; three great-grandchild, Makenna, Owen and Kimber, and one more on the way. She is further survived by many nieces and nephews in the Kenosha and San Francisco areas. She was preceded in death by her parents, and her husband, Russell "Butch" Fenske in 2016, and her sister, Jean Guthrie last month.

Submitted: January 15, 2021

Mary Lea (Springer) Heidt — Slinger, WI, passed away on September 25, 2020 at the age of 67. Mary Lea Heidt (nee Springer) age 67 of Slinger, Wisconsin passed away after a courageous 5-year battle with brain cancer on Friday, September 25, 2020 in her home, surrounded by her loving family. Mary Lea was born August 8, 1953 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin to Carolee (nee Devins) and Larry Springer. She resided in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin for most of her childhood and graduated from Hamilton High School in 1972. Mary Lea attended Carthage College in Kenosha, WI where she excelled in basketball and graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1975. She then joined the United States Navy and served honorably as a hospital corpsman for eight years. In the Navy, she met Brian C. Heidt in Bethesda, Maryland and they were married on September 2, 1978 at Christ the King Evangelical Lutheran Church in Brookfield, Wisconsin. Their careers relocated Mary Lea and Brian and their growing family to Charleston, South Carolina; Portsmouth, Virginia; and Mystic, Connecticut where she worked for South County Laboratory in Westerly, Rhode Island. They returned to Wisconsin in 1992 and made Slinger their home since 1994. Mary Lea retired in October 2018 after working for Aurora Health Care in Menomonee Falls and West Allis as a medical technologist with a special interest in microbiology. She enjoyed everything about the outdoors: birdwatching, biking, camping, hiking, gardening, traveling, and off-roading in the family’s collection of Jeep’s. Mary Lea had an immense soft spot for animals. Her love for her family and friends, especially her grandchildren, will never be forgotten, but forever missed. Mary Lea is survived by her beloved husband of 42 years, Brian; loving children, Sarah Lea (Daniel) Follett and Matthew (Erin) Heidt; adored grandchildren, Hazel Marie, Levi Patrick, Henry Thomas, and Lillian Madison; loving mother, Carolee Drewieck; dear siblings, Kristin (Glenn) Baldwin, Carl (Cindy) Springer and Mark (Donna) Springer; and dear sister-in-law, Carol Hall. She is further survived by other loved relatives and friends. She is preceded in death by her grandmother, Katherine Devins; parents-in-law, Marguerite and Eugene Heidt; and brother-in-law, Russell Hall. We remember Mary Lea with the following passage: She is always with you. She’s the whisper of the leaves as you walk down the street, she’s the smell of certain foods you remember, flowers you pick, the warmth of a blazing fire, and the fragrance of life itself. She’s the cool hand on your brow when you’re not feeling well, she’s your breath in the air on a cold winter’s day. She is the sound of the rain that lulls you to sleep, all the colors of the rainbow, she is Christmas morning. She lives inside your laughter, your smile, and your heart. She’s the place you call home and the compass which guides you on your journey. Nothing on Earth can separate you from her. Not time, not space, not even death…

Submitted: May 13, 2022

David A. Mullikin — Kankakee, IL, passed away on June 26, 2022 at the age of 69 at his home, surrounded by his family. He was born Dec. 20. 1952, in DeKalb, the son of Merle and Marjorie Mullikin. David was a 1970 graduate of Kankakee Eastridge High School. During his high school years, he was the student manager of the swim team, a member of the concert and marching bands, and a member of the Black Hawks Drum and Bugle Corps. He attended Carthage College in Kenosha, Wis., where he studied art history, history and English literature. David was a member of Alpha Phi Omega, a leadership and service organization. He furthered his education at Northern Illinois University, where he received a Master's Degree in English Literature and a Master's Degree in Art History. David worked as an English instructor and as a copy editor in the Office of East Asian Studies at Northern Illinois University. He also taught at various other institutions: Waubonsee Junior College, Kankakee Community College and the University of St. Francis. David was an avid reader and connoisseur of classical music. In later years, he enjoyed substitute teaching in several area high schools and he lovingly and proudly cared for his parents. He was an active member at St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Kankakee. Surviving are his mother, Marjorie Mullikin, and sister, Julia Mullikin, of Kankakee; and his brother, Brian Mullikin (Dyan), and nephew, Colton Mullikin, of DeKalb. Preceding him in death were his father, Merle Mullikin; his paternal grandparents, Florence and Roy Mullikin; and his maternal grandparents, Abbie and Elmer Dickman.

Submitted: September 7, 2022

Willard Westra — Kenosha, WI, passed away on November 3, 2022 at the age of 89 at Aurora Medical Center Kenosha. Born in Kenosha, on September 19, 1933, he was the son of the late Sam and Alida Westra. He was educated in the schools of Kenosha and graduated from Carthage College with his BA in Criminal Justice. Willard proudly served in the US Navy from 1952, until he was honorably discharged in 1956. He was a 2nd class plane captain that was stationed in Anacostia—Washington, D.C., Norman, OK, and Memphis. On September 29, 1956, he married Jeanette E. Posthumus. They celebrated 66 years of marriage together this year. Willard was employed by the Kenosha Police Department as a police officer for 30 years and was active in their statewide shooting competitions. He was a member at St. Mary’s Lutheran church and enjoyed hunting, fishing, working at W&W Orchards and selling at the farmer’s market, and maintaining his garden which was his pride and joy.Survivors include his wife, Jeanette Westra; daughter, Cheryl Schnitzer; daughter by choice, Jodi Wojnicz; seven grandchildren: Jason, Rachael, Joshua, Mathew, Bailey, Benjamin, and Daniel; four great-grandchildren: Jackson, Zachary, Haley, and Lucas, with Colby due in December; and a sister-in-law, Edith Westra. Aside from his parents, he was preceded in death by a daughter, Linda Hendricks; and six siblings: Henry Westra, John (Nelda) Westra, Richard Westra, Dina (Paul) Jesperson, Clara (Robert) Wiersma, and Josephine (Ray) Sikorsky.

Submitted: November 9, 2022

1974

Patricia Beth & Clint 1974 — Kenosha, WI, passed away peacefully, surrounded by her loving family, Monday, December 21, 2020 at her residence. She was born on September 12, 1948 to the late Norbert and Marjorie (Meyer) Hansen in Kenosha. Her mother passed away when she was a young girl. Her father remarried Agnes Fellner. She was educated in the schools of Kenosha County and graduated from Central High School in 1966. Pat received her teaching license at Racine-Kenosha Teachers College, in Union Grove. She taught second grade at Bristol Elementary for eight years. Pat received her BA in Education from Carthage, furthered her education at UWM and received her Master’s in Education from National Louis University. She was the librarian at Somers Elementary for 20 years, retiring in 2007. On July 31, 1971 she married Clint Beth in Kenosha. Pat was a member of St. Mary’s Catholic Church. Pat loved reading, baking, cooking, arts and crafts, playing the piano and was extremely talented in sewing, knitting and crocheting. She would make clothes, accessories and kids doll clothes for her loved ones. Most of all, Pat loved spending personal time with her family, especially her grandchildren. She thoroughly enjoyed spending time with her friends. She always had a smile on her face, and loved doing for others. She will be greatly missed by all who knew her. Pat is survived by her loving husband Clint, her son Timothy (Ellen) Beth, her daughter Tracy (Scott) Lambrecht, her grandchildren Austin and Taylor Lambrecht and Gretchen and Everett Beth, her siblings Jim (Sue) Hansen, Peter (Pam) Hansen, Michael Hansen, Paul (Sue) Hansen, Jane (Larry) Jenner john, Julie Hansen and George (Pam) Hansen.

Submitted: September 27, 2021

Kent A. Gaertner — Aurora, IL, passed away March 2, 2022. He was born on July 15, 1952 in Blue Island, IL. Kent is survived by his loving wife of 26 years, Mary; his children, Jerrod Gaertner, Kristen Henry and Stefanie Henry; his brother, Todd (Cindy) Gaertner; his nieces, Karin Davis and Kim Pliskin. He was preceded in death by his parents, Ralph and Audrey Gaertner. Kent grew up in Naperville, IL and graduated from Carthage College. He obtained his law degree from the Nova Southeastern University of Law in Florida. He practiced bankruptcy law for over 35 years and was well respected in his field of expertise. He was very active in the DuPage County Bar Association and the Illinois State Bar Association. He was a former President of the DCBA. He was a longtime delegate to the ISBA and was a hearing board member of the IL ARDC. In his spare time Kent enjoyed fishing, golfing and watching baseball. In his younger years he loved playing both baseball and softball. Kent will be remembered as a loving husband and father, as well as a great friend who will be deeply missed by all.

Submitted: March 9, 2022

Ross Groat — Franksville, WI, Ross Groat, age 69, of Franksville Wisconsin, went to his heavenly home on September 20, 2021. Surviving Ross is his mother Judith, and siblings Rodd (Kathleen), Rand, Renee (Joel), Roy, Roger (Darla). Ross is further survived by several nieces and nephews. Preceded in death by his father, Virgil Groat, and his Grandparents.

Submitted: August 20, 2024

Thomas R Schuelke — Estero, FL, passed away February 22, 2022. Born in Fort Wayne, he was a son of the late Robert and Melva Schuelke and a graduate of Carthage College. Tom was the founder and owner of Prestige Exteriors, Inc. doing residential and commercial business in Fort Wayne and surrounding areas for over 30 years. Tom was a member of the Lions Club for 45 years and loved golfing, boating, fishing, and traveling in his vintage RV to various state parks. He married the love of his life, Alice Schuelke on June 8, 1974, she survives. Tom is also survived by his sons, Andrew (Camille) and Mark Schuelke; sister, Kathy (Dewey) Senger; many nephews, nieces, cousins, and friends from Fort Wayne and Estero, Fla.

Submitted: March 2, 2022

Ethel I. (Weyrauch) Seno — Burlington, WI, passed away October 4th, 2021. Born in Burlington on July 14, 1944, she was the daughter of Russell and Isabelle (nee Barhyte) Weyrauch. Her early life was spent in Burlington, where she graduated from Burlington High School. She graduated from the Wisconsin State Teacher College in Union Grove and received her bachelor's degree in education from Carthage College. On July 13, 1963, in Burlington, she was united in marriage to Roger Seno. Following marriage, they lived in the family home in Slades Corners. She was a lifetime resident of the Burlington area. Ethel worked as a teacher for Wheatland Grade School and was a member of St. John's Lutheran Church in Slades Corners. She also served on the Altar Guild and Ladies Aid and was very active in her community. She enjoyed doing many crafts, but most important in her life was spending time with her family. Her husband Roger preceded her in death on April 13, 2021. Ethel is survived by her daughter, Tracey Seno-Coleman; grandsons, Tyler (Paulette) Coleman and Dusty (Emily) Coleman; great-grandsons, Marcus and Ryan; sister, Jo Weyrauch; brothers, Chuck (Arlene) Weyrauch and Donald (Terry) Weyrauch; sisters-in-law, Deloris (Nick) Kueber, Betty Seitz, LaVon (Michael) Ziebell and Cheryl Weyrauch; along with nieces, nephews, other relatives and many friends. She was preceded in death by her parents, husband and brother, Fred Weyrauch.

Submitted: October 7, 2021

Robert Smuda — Kenosha, WI, Robert J. Smuda (Bob) '74, passed away at the age of 74 in the early morning of August 2nd, 2023. He was a proud member of Tau Delta Psi (Buffaloes).

Submitted: August 7, 2023

LynnEve Beth Sturm — Phoenix, AZ, passed away December 14, 2020. Born Feb 29, 1952, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Received a Bachelor and a Masters degree in Education from Carthage College, Kenosha, WI Upon receiving her Bachelor degree in 1974 she began her teaching career in the Kenosha Unified School District. She then continued on to get her masters degree. She also took additional graduate classes at Cardinal Stritch College and the University of Wisconsin both in Milwaukee. Her entire teaching career was in Kenosha, teaching special education (elementary grades) from 1974 to 1999 when she began to teach regular 3rd grade education. During her career she also served on a number of school committees. She retired in 2007. She also served a number of years as a Commissioner on the Village of West Milwaukee's Civil Service Commission, and was a long time member of the Council for Exceptional Children. In 2009 she moved to Phoenix, AZ where her brother, Dennis, lived. She volunteered for 8 years as a Navigator at Phoenix Sky Harbor Airport answering questions from arriving and departing passengers. She loved to travel, attend live theater performances, and also did quilting. She attended church Bible classes both at Nain church in West Allis, WI and here at Emmanuel in Tempe, AZ.

Submitted: October 22, 2021

1973

Kathleen J Gienko — Palatine, IL, was the beloved wife of the late Mitchell P. Gienko; loving mother of Beth (Daniel) Stowell and Susan Gienko; daughter of the late George and Lillian Kauffman; sister of Nancy (Bradley) Nelson; aunt of Lance and Ryan Nelson, and Robert and Lillian Serwa; daughter-in-law of Josephine (the late Mitchell) Gienko; and sister-in-law of Sandra (Robert) Serwa. She is also survived by many relatives and friends.

Submitted: March 24, 2021

Georgia (Henningsen) Heffel — Racine, WI, passed away on April 21, 2023 at the age of 102. Georgia Henningsen Heffel, age 102, entered eternal life on Friday, April 21, 2023. Georgia was born on May 14, 1920, to the late George and Anna Marie Henningsen and was a lifelong resident of Racine. She graduated from Washington Park High School. While employed, she attended evening college classes and after 17 years graduated from Carthage College in 1973 with a BA in English and a minor in Psychology. She was a member of Sigma Tau Delta National English Honor Society and was also a member of the Henry Denhart Society of Carthage College. She became a Big Sister and was later appointed to the Board of Directors of Big Sisters of Racine. Her hobbies were cooking, baking, reading, and traveling. She travelled extensively throughout her lifetime. On September 19, 1981, Georgia was united in marriage to Samuel Heffel who preceded her in death. After 33 years of company employment, she retired from the Human Resources Department of S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. She also served as Secretary/Treasurer of the Johnson Wax Twenty Year Club for many years. Georgia was a charter member of Mt. Pleasant Lutheran Church and served on its first building committee. She also served on the church council, as a communion assistant, lector, usher and over the years had been an active member of the various social ministries, education and service programs of the church. She also belonged to the Women’s Bible Study Fellowship for many years. Georgia is survived by nieces and nephews: Linda Binninger, Ray (Wilma) Nielsen, Sandra Nielsen, Kathy Henningsen, Jerry (Lupi) Haack, June (George) LeRette; “little sister”, Vicki Card; other relatives and many dear friends. In addition to her parents and husband, she was preceded in death by her siblings: Edna Henningsen, Arthur (Hazel) Henningsen, Alice (Harold) Haack, and Esther (Peter) Nielsen.

Submitted: May 3, 2023

Richard M. Holden — Lake Zurich, IL, passed away on March 31, 2023 at the age of 72. Richard “Rick” Mark Holden, a 36 year resident of Lake Zurich, passed away peacefully after a short illness at the age of 72 on Friday, March 31, in Barrington. Rick was born on June 1, 1950 to Robert Harry Holden and Mary Ann Franzen Holden in Chicago Heights. He grew up in the Chicago area as well as Rockford and Decatur, graduating from Stephen Decatur High School in 1968. He graduated from Carthage College in 1973 and was a member of Delta Omega Nu fraternity. It was at Carthage that Rick met his future wife, Linda Stahl. They were married July 9, 1977 at River Trails Nature Center in Northbrook. Rick is survived by his wife, Linda Stahl Holden; their daughters Kim Mancini (Mike) of Winnetka and Allie Holden Loperena (Jordan) of Barrington as well as grandchildren Ella, Audrey and Liam Mancini. Rick is also survived by his sister Barb Taylor (Wayne), niece Kris Davenport (Rob) and great niece Natalie Davenport, as well as grandpets Mallie, Wells and Butters — all of whom he loved dearly. Rick was deeply passionate about his career in Human Resources and headed up that aspect of corporate life for several manufacturing companies in Cook and Lake Counties. After retirement from the corporate world, and due to his gifted ability to mentor those looking for professional support in the job hunt and career advancement, Rick devoted countless hours to help job seekers through The Barrington Career Center (formerly Career Place). An avid golfer, Rick both played regularly, and in his retirement years worked on the links as a starter at Barrington Hills Country Club. A humble man, Rick was a much better golfer than he’d lead you to believe and thoroughly enjoyed his time on the fairways, greens, and even very, very occasionally in the rough. Rick loved the Chicago White Sox, and his favorite team ever was the 1959 American League champion team that starred his favorite player, Nellie Fox. He also had a deep passion for college football and basketball and took great pride in rooting for what he liked to call “The Three I’s” of the Big Ten – since he grew up a University of Illinois fan and sent his daughters to Indiana University and the University of Iowa. Even with all these passions and hobbies, Rick loved nothing more than to spend time with his loved ones. His upbeat spirit was infectious in the best way imaginable, and his warm smile and loving demeanor could turn your bad day into a great day in a split second. He was selfless in the way he cared for others and was always willing to offer a helping hand. Rick was as great a husband, father, father-in-law, grandfather, brother, and friend as any of us could have ever asked for and that legacy will keep Rick with us forever.

Submitted: April 25, 2023

1972

Richard C. Anderson — Brookfield, WI, passed away August 3, 2021.

Submitted: August 9, 2021

Joyce Dahlquist — Lead Hill, Arkansas, passed away January 17, 2012, at Lead Hill at the age of 61. She was born December 12, 1950, at Racine, Wisconsin the daughter of Raymond and Margaret Schlicke Dombrowski. She married James "Jim" Dahlquist on August 21, 1971, at Racine and was a business woman. She received her Bachelor's degree at the University of Wisconsin. Joyce lived in Lead Hill since 1999 moving from Buffalo, Missouri. Joyce is survived by her husband, Jim and 4 children, Steven, Rebecca, Amanda and Michael. She was preceded in death by her parents.

Submitted: March 24, 2021

Josephine Prescott Mosley — Milwaukee, WI, age 72, daughter of the late Roscoe Prescott and Lossie Prescott, was born in Dyersburg, TN, on June 18, 1950. She transitioned on February 7th, 2023, at 12:12 pm in Covington, GA. At the age of nine, her mother and brother (Ronald Prescott) relocated to Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Josephine attended and graduated from Milwaukee Lincoln High School in 1969. After graduation, she attended Carthage College in Kenosha, Wisconsin. She graduated from Carthage College in May 1972 with a BA in Elementary Education. On June 17, 1972, she married her college sweetheart, Floyd Mosley (Class of 1969, Delta Omega Nu). That same year, she began teaching with the Milwaukee Public School System. She was living her dream of becoming a teacher. She completed her MS degree in 1983 in Educational Leadership and her principal K-12 license. In 1986, she was promoted to Vice-principal at Oliver Wendell Homes Elementary School. In 1988, she was assigned to Victor Berger Elementary School and, in 1991, appointed principal of Dr. Martian Luther King Jr. African Immersion School. Josephine served as the principal of Dr. Knig until her retirement in 2005. As principal of Dr. King, the first African American Immersion School in the Milwaukee Public Schools, she received many local and National awards for raising student achievement and increasing parent and community involvement while in stilling every child a sense of pride for their African heritage and culture. She was a trailblazer, receiving the Presidential Recognition Award for "Leaving No Child Behind" for her leadership and commitment. Her former teachers and teaching staff remember her as one who accepted nothing but their best. She was a mentor and role model for all who knew her. Josephine was actively involved in many organizations. She was a lifetime member of the NAACP, member of Church of Women United, Kappa Phi ETA sorority(Carthage College), Eta Phi Beta Sorority INC- Alpha Chi Chapter, Top Ladies of Distinction, and the Get Away Club Milwaukee Chapter. Josephine was a well-rounded person. She loved to travel, dance, and have fun. Spiritually, She accepted Jesus Christ as her personal savior at an early age, joining Greater Galilee Baptist Church, where her late grandfather, Reverend Roosevelt Franklin, served as an associate minister. Josephine continued her spiritual journey by joining Milwaukee's New Covenant Missionary Baptist church. She accepted her calling to the ministry under the pastoral leadership of Dr. F. L. Crouther. Her trial sermon was "You Can Run, but You Can't Hide." Josephine loved to preach the word and teach Sunday School and Bible Study classes. She found her dream home after retiring from the Milwaukee Public Schools in June 2007. She relocated to Jackson, Tennessee, where she joined Barean Baptist Church under the pastoral leadership of Reverand James Carter. She was ordained and served as an associate minister and Bible study teacher. Josephine loved the lord. She shared her faith in God with family and friends. She reared her children to be faithful and obedient to God's will. She studied the word, especially with her late sister in Christ and spiritual soul mate, Lena Hyche. She often said to put God first! Do not get ahead of God! Josephine touched many lives, professionally and spiritually. She left a legacy of unconditional love and friendship to all who knew and loved her. Their names are too numerous to list here. Her memory will forever be in our hearts. To God be the glory for a life well lived. She is survived by her husband of over 50 years, Floyd Mosley, Covington, Ga., one Son, Jason Mosley, and his Fiancee Ivanna Griffin, Cedar Hill, Texas. Two daughters, Dr. Penny Mosley and Kristin (Rodrick) Green, Fort Worth, Texas, and her adopted mother, Ms. Dorthy Warren of Milwaukee, Wisconsin; and one brother, Ronald (Yvonne) Prescott of Collierville, TN; three grandchildren, Rodreekus, Evan and Leah Green and numerous aunts, uncles, cousins, nieces, nephews, and friends.

Submitted: November 15, 2023

Donna Ryberg — Beloit, WI, passed away on January 8, 2022.

Submitted: January 13, 2022

Deborah (Knowlan) Worthington — Roseville, MN, passed away on May 7, 2022 in Roseville, MN. Deborah was an avid cabin-lover, spending decades at the family cabin. She spent much of her career working as a school nurse for St. Paul Public Schools and was a loving, caring friend to all. Deborah is survived by son, Rob Worthington; daughter, Sara Worthington; grandchildren, Emma, Sofia, Hannah, William, Carolos and Charlotte. Survivors include parents, William "Wild Bill" and Dorothy Knowlan and brother, Scott Knowlan.

Submitted: May 31, 2022

1971

Cynthia (Brusko) Black — Racine, WI, passed away January 16, 2021. Cynthia Kirkegaard Brusko Black was born in Sturtevant, WI, on November 15, 1948 to Paul and Erna Brusko. She was predeceased by : her parents, Paul Brusko and Erna Brusko; her cousin Jeanine Rich; her nephew Christian Skoglund; and her son-in-law Drew Papillon. She is survived by : her children, Amy Elizabeth, Nathan Black (Veronica) and Alissa Miller (Isaac); her husband Ken Black; and her grandchildren, Josiah, Elizabeth Black, Hudson, Lydia, Cynthia Alyse Miller, Judah and Tovi Papillon.

Submitted: September 28, 2021

Patricia M. Calvert — Kenosha, WI, passed away on April 24, 2022 at the age of 78. Patricia “Hooter” M. Calvert, 78, of Kenosha, passed away peacefully, Sunday, April 24, 2022 at her residence. She was born on November 1, 1943 to the late Frederick and Violet (Sundberg) Calvert in San Francisco, CA. She was educated in the schools of Kenosha and graduated from Mary D. Bradford High School in 1961, graduate from Gateway Technical College in 1968 and received her BA in Business from Carthage College. Pat worked at Snap-On Tools for a few years, then for AMC/Chrysler for 10 years and worked at Gateway College as an administrative assistant for 28 years, retiring from there. Pat was a member of Grace Lutheran Church and was very active being a Sunday School Teacher and singing in the choir for many years. Pat volunteered and ran team Gateway for the Relay of Life for the American Cancer Society in Kenosha for many years. Pat enjoyed bowling, tennis collecting stamps, coins comic books, traveling and loved owls. She was also a Wisconsin sports fan. Pat lived life to the fullest with having loving concern for others. Pat is survived by her brother Andrew Calvert, her dear friend and caregiver P.J. Rupp, her aunt Florence Wieske and many other relatives and friends.

Submitted: May 4, 2022

Dennis Guehler — Eugene, Oregon, passed away on July 17, 2023. He was 73. At Carthage, Dennis had majors in speech, theatre, and history. He was on the executive board of Student Government, president of his fraternity Beta Phi Epsilon and very active in theater as well. He was nominated as one of Who's Who in the U.S his senior year. Dennis is survived by his sisters, Rhonda (Guehler) Vander Bloomen '74 and Sherrill (Guehler) Randau '80, and his brother, Roger.

Submitted: February 7, 2024

Pete R. Householder — Glenview, IL, Peter Rene Householder, class of 1971, passed away on November 14, 2005. Beloved husband of Beatrice; proud father of Jonathan and Ashley; fond brother of James (Margaret), Michael (Carole) and Patricia (Jerry); uncle of many.

Submitted: March 24, 2021

Edmund D. Krunfus — Clarkston, MI, passed away on January 22, 2022. Edmund was born July 18, 1949 to Edmund W. and Malinda (Winkelhake) Krunfus in Elgin, IL. On August 15, 1970 Edmund married Tracy Laura Davis in Brown Deer, WI. They were married for 37 years before Tracy passed on September 26, 2007. After Carthage College in Kenosha, WI, Edmund graduated from Marquette University, Milwaukee, WI. He retired after 35 years as a mechanical engineer for Ford Motor Company in Michigan. Survivors include siblings Judy Pfingsten of Harvard, IL, Janice (James) Reinecke of Bolingbrook, IL, nieces/nephews Joyce (Jeffery) Freres & family of Genoa City, WI, James (Andrea) Susong & family of Colorado Springs, CO, Jeffrey (Sherry) Susong of Avalon, WI, Joanna Reinecke (Randy Mikutis) & family of Bolingbrook, IL, Brian (Julie) Downey of Santa Fe, NM, Greg Downey (Julie Yendrek) & family of Madison, WI. He was preceded in death by parents Edmund W. and Malinda Krunfus, and wife Tracy.

Submitted: February 7, 2022

Steve Lindblom — Dixon, IL, passed away in Florida on February 27, 2020. He was born in Dixon, IL on June 28, 1949, the son of the late William and Lucille (nee: Heckman) Lindblom. Steve proudly served his nation with the U.S. Army during the Vietnam War. He worked as a civil engineer for Oakes and Sons and JI Case and retired from Abbott Laboratories. He was an avid outdoorsman and enjoyed golfing, fishing, hunting and riding his Harley. However, he was happiest in the company of his family. Steve is survived by his son and daughters, Travis (Mackenzie) Lindblom of Wauwatosa, Victoria (Seth) Carlson of Racine, Stephanie (Michael) Ziemba of Kenosha; his grandchildren, Alexander, Jackson and Zachary Ziemba; his former wife and best friend, Barbara Lindblom of The Villages, FL; as well as many dear nieces, nephews, relatives and friends. He was also preceded in death by his sister, Linda Downey.

Submitted: September 27, 2021

Patricia J Mentink — New Port Richey, FL, passed away February 27, 2021. She was born on May 27, 1941 to the late Kenneth and Erma (Brown) Mentink in Woodstock, IL. She graduated from Central High School and Columbia Hospital School of Nursing as a RN. She did post graduate studies at Carthage College. She worked at Kenosha Memorial Hospital, Trinity Hospital in Cudahy, WI, and Bayonet Point Regional Medical Center in Hudson, FL. Pat is survived by brothers: Keith (Shirley) Mentink and Daniel Mentink of Kenosha, and Craig (Mary) Mentink of Holmen, WI. She is survived by several nieces and nephews. She was preceded in death by sisters: Beverly Mentink, Jacqueline Mentink, and Kathleen Mentink Gibson.

Submitted: March 15, 2021

Kathleen M. Mueller — Arvada, CO, passed away October 12, 2020.

Submitted: July 26, 2021

Edward J Plagemann — Racine, WI, passed away May 23, 2021. He was born July 20, 1949. Loving husband of Suzanne (nee LeGrand) for almost 47 years. Loving dad of Douglas (Kelly) and Ruth (Jeremy) Sohre. Proud Papa of Connor, Carson, Keyari, Landon, and Noah. Dear brother of Mary (Michael) Frank and the late Walter (Sandy) Plagemann. Further survived by other relatives and friends.

Submitted: January 24, 2022

Elaine (Dracos) Rompella — Fort Myers, FL, passed away December 7, 2021. Elaine is survived by her husband of fifty years, John Rompella. They married on September 11, 1971 at St. Demetrios Greek Orthodox Church in Waukegan, IL. She was born in October 1949 to Peter & Ellie (née Mohn) Dracos in Waukegan, IL. Elaine graduated from Waukegan Township High School in 1967. She received her bachelor's degree from Carthage College (Kenosha, WI) in 1971. She was an English teacher at St. Anastasia School in Waukegan and Kenneth Murphy Jr. High School in Beach Park, IL for more than 15 years. Elaine was a lifelong member of St. Demetrios Greek Orthodox Church in Waukegan/Libertyville, IL until she retired to Fort Myers, FL where she was a member of Annunciation Greek Orthodox Church. Elaine was a wonderful, loving wife, mother and yiayia who devoted her life to her children and grandchildren. She loved playing card games with her many relatives and friends. Elaine was a world traveler whose favorite destination was Aruba. Cooking and baking were her passions. Elaine especially enjoyed baking and often delivered delicious treats to everyone she knew. She loved and lived for her family and friends. In addition to her husband John, Elaine is survived by her children, Kristine Wolski (Kirk), Joseph Rompella, and John P. Rompella (Kaitlin Davis); grandchildren, Anthony, Ethan, Kyla, Nathan, Harper, and Haleigh; siblings, Thalia Chresanthakes, Mary (Evange) Bozinis, Peggy (John) Pann, Doris (Tom) Iskalis, Carole Scheve, Nicki (Chuck) Coxon, Bill (Colleen) Dracos; and brother-in-law, Themy Gliatis. She was preceded in death by her parents Peter & Ellie; sister, Margaret Gliatis; brothers-in-law, Chris Chresanthakes and Dan Scheve; nephews, James, Tommy, and Billy; and niece, Lisa.

Submitted: December 14, 2021

Thomas L Sarnowski — Wind Lake, WI, passed away January 17, 2022. Born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin on May 6, 1947, he was the son of Leonard and Dorothy (nee Bednarek) Sarnowski. His early life was spent in Milwaukee, where he graduated from Bay View High School and Carthage College. He also served in the US Army Reserves. On October 30, 1970, he was united in marriage to Maureen Stanczyk. Following marriage, they made Milwaukee their home. He has been a resident of Wind Lake for 30 years. Thomas was a true leader. Beginning his career as an elementary teacher, he later became an entrepreneur. He had a keen sense of humor, could mediate any situation and always treated everyone fairly. He loved spending time with this family, especially his grandchildren. Thomas is survived by his wife, children Paul (Karissa) Sarnowski and DeAnna (Tim) Delimat, and grandchildren Nicholas Delimat and Ava Sarnowski. He was preceded in death by his parents and brother John Sarnowski.

Submitted: January 21, 2022

1970

Allan Oliver Baldwin — Oak Park, IL, at the age of 71, former chairman of the Ernest Hemingway Foundation, died unexpectedly on May 21, 2019, long before his life’s many adventures were over, in Oak Park, where he was a lifelong resident. The son of the late Albert and the late Virginia Baldwin, he graduated from Oak Park and River Forest High School, class of 1966, then earned an undergraduate degree from the University of Illinois Chicago and a Master of Business Administration degree from the Keller Graduate School of Management. Before retirement, he was vice president of Information Technology at Loyola University Chicago. Prior to that, he was chief information officer at the University of Illinois Medical Center, where he was instrumental in developing and implementing one of the first electronic medical records in the U.S. He was also key in the implementation of the first statewide trauma registry, a computerized program that became a model for data collection systems for all international trauma centers. A dear friend to many, he continually expanded his circle of friends along with his worldwide adventures. An intrepid traveler with an outgoing personality, he didn’t believe that any destination was too distant or too dangerous. From Mt. Everest to Antarctica, with his loving wife, Jan, at his side, every place was a new adventure. An expert sailor and avid scuba diver, he loved the ocean, logging more than 500 dives in waters across the globe and was well known for his videos which he documented family and travels. A loyal regular at Poor Phil’s and Barclay’s, he spent hours with old friends, new friends and staff. In the spirit of giving back to his community, he was a longtime volunteer and board member of the Hemingway Foundation, serving at varying times as treasurer and chair. But the most important thing of all was family. He loved and took great pride in all his children and grandchildren and their many accomplishments. Allan Baldwin is survived by Jan, his wife and soulmate of 30 years; his children, Steve Lowe, Jennifer Baldwin, Jeremy (Alinda) Baldwin, Matthew (Kristen) Baldwin, and Katherine (Jeremy Ott-Holland) Baldwin; his grandchildren, Kailey Baldwin, William Raskovich, Casey Baldwin, and Jack Raskovich; his siblings, Judith (David) Voigt; Patricia (David) Moschner and Sandra (Ralph) Searles; and his in-laws, Daniel Di Vito and the late William (Mary Jo) Di Vito.

Submitted: March 24, 2021

John Norman Freedlund — Batavia, IL, passed away on Saturday, September 26 at Mercy Hospital in Aurora. He was born to Norman and Virginia (Anderson) Freedlund on June 20, 1948. John was a longtime resident of Batavia, graduating with the high school class of 1966, and was proud of the friendships he maintained with many of his classmates. He graduated from Carthage College in 1970, where he met his wife Lynn (Christiansen) with whom he recently celebrated their fiftieth wedding anniversary. John taught history and coached basketball for many years at Carl Sandburg Junior High School in Mundelein, Illinois. After which he worked as a commodities broker at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. After retirement, John volunteered for many years at the Batavia Interfaith Food Pantry and more recently, at the Batavia Depot Museum. John was an avid Cubs fan and a proud father and grandfather. In addition to his wife, John is survived by his children, Emily Freedlund (fiance Adam Michalak), Daniel (Megan) Freedlund, Amy (Edward) Frankowski, and Anders (Kara) Freedlund; two grandsons, Oscar Frankowski and Otis Freedlund; his brother, Jim (Kathy); and nephew JJ.

Submitted: February 19, 2021

Ann (Davis) Hair — Lincolnton, NC, passed away on April 22, 2022 at the age of 74. Ann was born on February 19, 1948 in Greensboro, Alabama to the late Sarah Lee Davis Swartwout and the late Donald Wyley Davis. Ann was married for 37 years to Arthur Gregory Hair, who preceded her in death. She was a graduate of Carthage College and worked as an elementary physical education teacher for 36 years in both the Berkeley County School District in South Carolina and the Lincoln County School District, from which she retired in 2013. Ann was an avid reader, a master gardener, an excellent seamstress and quilter and, in her earlier years, enjoyed horseback riding. She loved spending time with family and most especially her grandchildren, to whom she was known as “Grann”. She is survived by her daughter, Stephanie Mason Mood (Frank) of Columbia, South Carolina; her son, Donald Gregory Hair (Beth) of Lexington, North Carolina and her four grandchildren, Palmer Mood, Charlotte Mood, Daniel Hair and Jacob Hair. She is also survived by her two brothers, Don Davis of Clarkston, Michigan and Lee Davis of Ft. Lauderdale, Florida; and numerous cousins with whom she was very close.

Submitted: May 11, 2022

Dustin E Harris — Inverness, IL, passed away November 22, 2017 at the age of 72. He was a beloved husband of June D. Harris, nee Kohlmeyer; loving father of Jennifer (Nick) Wilhelm and Melissa Harris; brother of Mark (Joyce) Harris; cherished master of Cooper, Madison, Bentley and Sophie.

Submitted: March 24, 2021

Philip R Jaeger — Zion, IL, passed away October 26, 2020. He was born on Aug. 20, 1948, in Cedar Rapids, IA, the son of the late Ray C. and Rose E. (Meadows) Jaeger. They later settled in Zion and he graduated from Zion Benton High School in 1966. He graduated from Carthage College in 1970 with a BA with honors in English and Speech. He received his Master of Arts degree from Northwestern University in 1972. As a child, Philip spent as much time as he could at the movie theaters immersing his imagination in whatever story Hollywood had to tell. This was the beginning of his passion for the theater and his obsession with movie memorabilia/trivia. Phil was known throughout regional community theater as an actor, director and mentor. His final curtain call took place in March just before the COVID emergency shut down theaters. He reprised his role as George in Lakeside Players production of Death of a Streetcar Named Virginia Wolf. Phil treasured classical dramatic theater but some of his finest performances were in comedy. Philip is survived by a niece, Denise Dodd of Phoenix, a nephew and several great-nieces and nephews as well as his significant theater families at Lakeside Players, P, M & L, and RG Productions among others throughout southeastern Wisconsin and northern Illinois. "Uncle Phil" will be greatly missed by his Tappa-Mattner family. He was preceded in death by a sister Bronwen and a nephew Gregory.

Submitted: January 15, 2021

Kim D. Jordan — Clermont, FL, passed away on July 19, 2021 at the age of 73. During his time at Carthage, he was a member of Tau Sigma Chi and the Men's Wrestling Team.

Submitted: February 11, 2022

James Francis Kaiser — Bloomington, IL, passed away on March 20, 2022. Jim was born in Racine, WI on March 7, 1940, to Susan and Vincen Kaiser. He is survived by his dear wife, Rita; his children: James II (Cate O'Hara), Daniel (Joni Lego), Deborah (Wayne) Eads, Sarah (Todd) Lindsey, Karen (Corey) Walker, and Rebecca (Ralph Webb); fourteen grandchildren: Ben and Anna Kaiser, Jacqueline (Justin Lynch) Kaiser, Ella Kaiser, Courtney (Jonathan) Waltz, Samantha (Jonathan) Williams, Tyler Eads, Joshua (Melissa Shinke) Lindsey, Jason Lindsey, Jhori Walker, Khori Brycen Walker, Reece Walker, and Maxson and Madeline Kaiser-Webb; six great-grandchildren: Kadin and Austin Lynch, Adalynn and James Williams, Mia Lindsey and Rowan Walker; five step-children: John (Jackie) Ganser, Therese (Brandon) Bossard, Gabriel (Lisa Maul) Ganser, Carmen (Michael Blackledge) Ganser and Stephen Ganser; and a step-granddaughter, Brianna Ganser. He was predeceased in death by his parents; his sisters: Iola Murphy and Harriet Ferraro; his first wife, Rae Anne (Niesen) and his and Rita's dog Rudy. Jim led a wonderful life filled with family, friends, and service. He joined the Marine Corps Reserves at the age of 17 before becoming a tool and die apprentice. During this time, he married Rae Anne and started their family while working and taking night classes at Carthage College before earning his Bachelor's degree. He transitioned from tool and die work to accounting and moved his family to Gridley, Illinois in 1971. Later the family moved to Bloomington, where he received his Master's degree in Political Science at Illinois State University. He retired from the City of Bloomington as the Assistant Finance Director. In addition to his professional and family life, Jim was active in the Optimists Club and was the treasurer of the McLean County Wheelers (later as a "Yoostabees"). He was involved in the Red Cross for many years, deployed to disasters throughout the US and locally, and received Volunteer of the Year in 2009. He also volunteered at Illinois CancerCare. Throughout it all, he was a devout Catholic who served at his parish in various capacities all his life. He and Rita enjoyed attending services together. Jim left a legacy of love and humor. He will be greatly missed by his friends and family.

Submitted: March 23, 2022

Jeanette V. (Franda) Klappauf — Racine, WI, passed away July 5, 2021. She was born at home in the Township of Gardner in Door County on October 7, 1929, the daughter of the late George and Vera (nee Vogel) Franda and grew up on their family farm. On April 25, 1953, she married Leonard Klappauf. As the oldest of five children in a farm family, Jeanette knew how to drive a team of horses, cook on a wood burning stove and milk cows by hand. After high school and earning her teaching certificate, she taught in a one-room school house until she married Leonard. While raising their five 