A lull in home sales in the wake of COVID-19 has been followed by a massive resurgence in demand for new homes in the Greater Toronto Area, particularly in the low-rise and subdivision markets. The surge was evidenced recently at Minto Communities GTA's Glen Agar community in Etobicoke, an enclave of single-family homes near Kipling Avenue and Rathburn Road that is now sold out.

Aerial rendered view of Minto Glen Agar community, image courtesy of Minto Communities GTA

Launched in July, 2017, the project offered 53 single-family homes in three- and four-bedroom layouts ranging from 3,100 to 4,100 ft², on 30’ lots and priced from $1.4 million. The community has drawn purchasers from a range of demographics including families and professionals, including frequent travellers attracted to its close proximity to Toronto Pearson International Airport, and commuters who appreciate easy access to Highway 427.

The project celebrated a ground breaking in November, 2018, and it's been a busy couple of years since shovels went into the ground. A model home was opened in the community last year as the first blocks wrapped up construction. It has since been sold, and now, many of the homeowners have moved into their new residences while some landscaping remains to be completed before construction wraps up.

Minto Glen Agar community, image courtesy of Minto Communities GTA

Glen Agar's homes are built in a variety of traditional and contemporary styles by architects RN Design. Influenced by Tudor and Georgian styles, the traditional homes feature varied roof lines and steep pitches to create a variety of forms, while creating a dialogue with the surrounding built form. The contemporary homes contrast the traditional with clean lines and vertical and horizontal elements. Materials like brick and stone, metal panels, and wood-look metal siding articulate the various elevations.

Minto Glen Agar community, image courtesy of Minto Communities GTA

Additional information and images can be found in our Database file for the project, linked below. Want to get involved in the discussion? Check out the associated Forum thread, or leave a comment in the space provided on this page.

* * *