Living in Etobicoke

Several greenspaces abut the Humber River in Etobicoke, including West Humber Parkland, Humber Sheppard Park, Humber Arboretum, and Humber Valley Golf Course. Residents in this area of the city show their community spirit at regularly-held events including the Lakeshore Community Festival, Etobicoke-Lakeshore Christmas Parade, and the Mimico Festival.

For residents who work in the city’s core and those who enjoy life by the water, the neighbourhoods of Mimico, Long Branch, and New Toronto provide excellent access to the lake and major roadways reaching downtown Toronto in minutes.

There are plenty of outdoor attractions and lakeside activities in this area of Etobicoke, including the Lakeshore Yacht Club (located in Colonel Smith Park), the Toronto Waterfront Trail and Etobicoke Creek Trail (which connect in Marie Curtis Park), and the Lakeshore Summer Concert Series which takes place in Long Branch Park.

The Go Train, TTC buses and subways provide excellent transit access. Riders can connect to the Mississauga transit system, and reach Pearson International Airport through Islington station.

People in Etobicoke

Because of the diverse lifestyle options in Etobicoke, there is a diverse representation of families of different economic and cultural backgrounds. There is also a large senior population in the New Toronto area.

Real estate in Etobicoke

Real estate varies greatly in Etobicoke. Many homes were built in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, with properties close to the lake constructed in Tudor and Edwardian styles. Now, there are a number of infill homes, and modern townhomes, as well as prime waterfront properties, plenty of two-storey homes, bungalows, semi-detached homes, and duplexes.

There are also quite a few mid-century homes in the Eatonville neighbourhood, as well as some apartments, condos, and townhomes. There is also an affordable housing community in Lakeshore village.

Must-visit in Etobicoke

Humber Arboretum: A 250-acre public botanical garden, conservation area, and educational centre.