The Lamorinda CERT Foundation is a fundraising organization that provides the majority of the funding to operate the Lamorinda CERT program. We are a 501(c)(3) public charity and we are able to accept tax deductible gifts.

Since our formation in 2013, we have raised over $200,000 through donations and sales. With no salaries, no office expense and all volunteer labor, our only expenses are for the direct logistics costs of running our water drum and fire extinguisher programs. We pay most of the day-to-day operating expenses of Lamorinda CERT.

In 2014, the foundation donated a new CERT trailer to our sponsoring agency, the Moraga-Orinda Fire District. This trailer is large, 8 1/2 feet wide and 20 feet long, and serves multiple purposes. The outside graphics advertise the CERT program and display the logos of the fire district and the local municipalities of Lafayette, Moraga and Orinda. Inside are an emergency communications center, office space and supplies storage. The trailer can function as a Volunteer Reception Center (VRC) where we are able to register, interview and dispatch spontaneous and affiliated volunteers following a disaster.

In 2017 the foundation donated a custom-built training trailer to MOFD to house the supplies and equipment for classes.

In 2019 the foundation donated 280 – 5 gallon Samson Stacker water drums (2 pallets) to victims of the Camp Fire in Paradise, CA who, after 9 months, still do not have running water and must carry water each day from a water truck. We have, in inventory, additional water drums for victims of future wildfires and earthquakes.

Tax-deductible contributions can be made by sending a check to the Lamorinda CERT Foundation, 1280 Moraga Way, Moraga, CA 94556-1115 or by clicking the Donate link below.

Lamorinda CERT Foundation is now one of the charities that can be selected for matching company funds through Benevity, a software company that powers corporate giving, volunteering, and grant-making solutions for hundreds of Fortune 1000 companies from around the globe. Companies such as Apple, Microsoft, Google, and Starbucks offer this service to their employees so that charitable giving is easy and effective. Check with your company to see if they use Benevity and if you can make donations which will be matched. This is a win-win for you and for Lamorinda CERT Foundation.

Our Board of Directors meetings are open to the public and are held at 0830 before the Steering Committee meetings every other month.

Documents relating to our foundation’s incorporation are here:

Incorporation Process and Fees

Articles of Incorporation Page 1 Page 2

IRS Confirmation Letter

Bylaws

The Board of Directors met on November 30, 2015 and approved changes to the Bylaws. The proposed Bylaw changes in Article VII, Section 2 were approved. The change added a position to the Board and made the Foundation President an appointed position, like the Secretary/Treasurer. This lets each city have two representatives in addition to the officers.

Merchandise Sales

The sale of disaster supplies is another function of the Lamorinda CERT Foundation. We sell water storage drums and accessories, medical supplies, clothing items and general disaster survival supplies as a service to San Francisco Bay Area residents. By purchasing in bulk, we are able to get quantity pricing and minimize freight. This allows us to sell items at low cost and in convenient quantities. Moraga-Orinda Fire District and the Lamorinda CERT program are not resellers and have no interest, control, responsibility or liability for any sale made by the Lamorinda CERT Foundation.

Lamorinda CERT Foundation is a California reseller. All sales are considered to be made at our registered place of business in Moraga, CA. The sales tax rate of 9.75% is included in the listed price of all items.

California Seller’s Permit SR CH 102-820184

DUNS 08-032-3253

EIN: 46-2982516