Amid Nobel Prizes are celebrated across the globe, Max Karl Ernst Ludwig Planck, a German theoretical physicist, who won the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1918, died on this day -- October 4, 1947, in G¶ttingen, Germany.

He originated quantum theory, revolutionising atomic and subatomic processes.

His achievement was celebrated like Albert Einstein's theory of relativity, which revolutionized the understanding of space and time.

advertisement

In October 1911, Planck and Einstein were among the group of prominent physicists who attended the first Solvay conference in Brussels.

Achievements

In 1900, he submitted his research papers on the quantum theory and were published in Annalen der Physik.

Further, his work was summarized in two books Thermodynamik (Thermodynamics) (1897) and Theorie der Wärmestrahlung (Theory of heat radiat ion) (1906).

The derivation of the relationship mentioned in his theory was based on the revolutionary idea that the energy emitted by a resonator could only take on discrete values or quanta. The energy for a resonator of frequency v is hv where h is a universal constant, now called Planck's constant.

He became the permanent secretary of the mathematics and physics sections of the Prussian Academy of Sciences in 1912 and held that position until 1938.

From 1930 to 1937, he became president of the Kaiser Wilhelm Society (now the Max Planck Society).

He was elected to Foreign Membership of the Royal Society in 1926, being awarded the Society's Copley Medal in 1928.

Research quantum theory:

Plank was nine when his father took him to city's renowned Maximilian Gymnasium, where a teacher, Hermann M¼ller, built his interest in physics and mathematics

Later, he became a Gymnasium student in his university. After realising the absolute law of nature, the second law became the subject of his doctoral dissertation at Munich University.

This derived him to discover the quantum of action, now known as Planck's constant h, in 1900.

Education attained by Max Karl Ernst Ludwig Planck

Planck studied at the Universities of Munich and Berlin

In 1879, he received his doctorate of philosophy at Munich University

From 1880 to 1885, he became Privatdozent in Munich

Later, he became the Associate Professor of Theoretical Physics at Kiel until 1889

Replacing Kirchhoff as the professor at Berlin University in 1889, he remained in the position until he retired in 1926

Subsequently, he became president of the Kaiser Wilhelm Society for the Promotion of Science, a post he held until 1937

He was appointed as a member by Prussian Academy of Sciences in 1894 and Permanent Secretary in 1912.

Interested in General Knowledge and Current Affairs? Click here to stay informed and know what is happening around the world with our G.K. and Current Affairs section.