A Grindhouse gorefest; fun for the whole family!

Title: I Drink Your Blood

Alternative Titles: HYDROPHOBIA (director’s original name)

Running Time: 90 minutes

Release Date: January 20th, 1971 (North Carolina?)

May 7th, 1971 (everywhere else)

Director: David E. Durston

Writer: David E. Durston

Producer: Jerry Gross

Cinematographer: Jacques Demareceaux

Studio: Jerry Gross Productions

Cast: Bhaskar Ray Chandresekhar

Jadine Wong

Rhonda Fultz

Riley Mills

David E. Durston

Plot: In a small town that has been deserted largely because of a new dam being constructed, a roving band of Satan-worshiping hippie weirdos come through and settle in to practice their rituals and act like asses. When one of the local girls is snuck in by an unsure member of the little band, she winds up getting brutalized and this leads her (largely ineffective) gramps to get revenge. Revenge he fails at getting because he’s a feeble-ass old man, they give him a double-dose of LSD and send him packing. Soon, the girl’s brother shoots a rabid dog, he then fills a syringe with the tainted blood and injects it into meat pies the hippies consume…then all hell breaks loose!

Blaze’s Review: Holy shit! This film is off the freaking rails! If you are a fan of Grindhouse gore and sleaze, you are missing out if you haven’t seen this obscure gem! I’m serious, drop what you’re doing and watch this mother (its available now on Tubi for free!!!). Featuring the talented, somewhat wooden, acting of talented dancer Bhaskar Chandresekhar (before he wound up paralyzed) as the Hippie Leader Horace Bones, a thinly-disguised (and less-racist) portrayal of Charles Manson, as well as Diva Jadine Wong as the random Asian lady decked out in stereotypical Asian wardrobe, you also get wild-eyed George Patterson as Rollo, a hippie who goes super crazy with an axe while foaming at the mouth. If you forget what this movie is called, be sure and watch the trailer, where the freaking narrator repeats the title FIVE times! Director Durston wanted to call the film “HYDRO-PHOBIA” but the producer Jerry Gross was like, “Nah fam, I got a better idea.” and thus we have the current title (though nobody ever drinks blood in the film).

If you are squeamish about blood, gore, titties or other nudity; I would not suggest you watch this, it has everything!

I Drink Your Blood is a fun and wild ride from 1971, being released in North Carolina, for some reason, on January 20 and then everywhere else on May 7. When it was released, it was double-billed with Del Tenney’s film, Zombies, retitled as I Drink Your Blood by the producer, Jerry Gross, releasing the duo as I Drink Your Blood and I Eat Your Skin! Always nice to see another Jerry with a bloodthirsty imagination. Critics loved the acting, but bitched about the violence (apparently they didn’t read the title of the freaking movie they were watching). The violence was actually what caused the MPAA to brand this film with an X rating, making this the first film to be given that rating for violence alone!