By T. Corey Brennan (ADBL editor) and Hatice Köroglu Çam (Temple University)

The Ludovisi Pan in its (post-1800) aedicula, Villa Ludovisi, 1885. Collection HSH Princess Rita Boncompagni Ludovisi, Rome.

Starting in June 1621 and into early 1622, a papal nephew, Cardinal Ludovico Ludovisi, bought several adjacent properties on the Pincio hill to form a “Villa Ludovisi”. All these contiguous estates were within the Aurelian Walls, on the site of the ancient Gardens of Sallust.

The Cardinal moved with remarkable speed in developing his purchases, evidently fearing that his sickly uncle, Gregory XV Ludovisi, was not long for the world. The Pope in fact succumbed in July 1623, after just 29 months on the throne.

Map by Carlo Maderno (early 1622) of Orsini property on the Pincio hill in Rome, drawn in connection to the sale of the property to Cardinal Ludovico Ludovisi = Archivio Boncompagni Ludovisi prot. 611 no. 5. From G. Felici, Villa Ludovisi in Roma (1952).

Three estates formed the core of the original Villa Ludovisi.

One had belonged to Cardinal Francesco del Monte, the early patron of Caravaggio, with what is now known as the Casino dell’Aurora at its center.

Another directly to its east was developed in the mid sixteenth century by a factious bishop of Pavia, Giovangirolamo De Rossi, which later had passed to the Orsini family of Gravina. The palace attached to that property today —with massive 19th and 20th century modifications—houses the US Embassy in Rome.

And east of that was a property once owned by the Frati della Traspontina, named the Villa Capponi, whose main structure now functions (again, with considerable alterations) as a garage for US Embassy vehicles.

Map (from T. Schreiber, Die antiken Bildwerke der Villa Ludovisi in Rom [1880], with annotations by G. Felici, Villa Ludovisi in Roma [1952]) of the Villa Ludovisi as it stood 1622-1825.

For his new spread, Cardinal Ludovisi quickly amassed a significant collection of well over 300 (mostly ancient) sculptures, a mindboggling assortment of important paintings, plus new mural work commissioned from star painters from his native Bologna and vicinity.

One might ask: where did all the antique sculptures come from? At least from the mid-18th century, it was commonly supposed that Cardinal Ludovico Ludovisi himself excavated the bulk of them in the early 1620s when laying out his new Villa.

Indeed, it is documented that Ludovico Ludovisi had to do a bit of digging to form a coherent garden retreat from his patchwork of Pincio properties. In the Cardinal’s Master Books for late 1622 and early 1623, one finds expenses paid to the famed architect Carlo Maderno for excavating and leveling portions of the property.

Detail from first page (1R) of a Villa Ludovisi account book (Archivio Boncompagni Ludovisi prot. 365). Collection of HSH Princess Rita Boncompagni Ludovisi, Rome.

Though contemporary records are silent on the matter, it does seem wholly possible that Maderno’s work uncovered a certain number of antiquities.

To adduce just one corroborating piece of evidence: a full 120 years later, a lease contract for a portion of Villa Ludovisi land (dated 14 March 1744) stipulates that the male head of family had the right to “hard and soft marbles of any size, statues and spires, bas-reliefs, metals, carvings, columns, inscriptions, heads, busts, and other sculptures or similar objects” found during agricultural work (Archivio Boncompagni Ludovisi prot. 612, no. 101). The formulation of the contract suggests that such chance discoveries were common on Ludovisi land.

Indeed, by the mid-18th century, we find outsiders stating flatly that some of the principal highlights of the ancient portions of the Ludovisi collection were found on the premises, a notion which demonstrably boosted the Villa’s fame. Cited in this connection are the “Dying Gaul” (since 1734 in the Capitoline Museums), plus the “Electra and Orestes” group and the colossal “Juno Ludovisi” head (now in the Museo Nazionale Romano Palazzo Altemps).

The staff of the Villa did their part to reinforce this evocative idea. “As soon as the stranger sees these treasures”, wrote Emil Braun in 1854 of the Ludovisi sculptures, “he is wont to inquire as to their provenance, and to be answered that they were most probably in the area of this magnificent villa, which spreads out on the grounds of the Gardens of Sallust, to have been excavated. No one will wish to doubt the possibility of such an assumption, though we must not conceal from ourselves the utter lack of any information to suggest it.”

In 1880 Theodor Schreiber, on the basis of family archival records which he was the first scholar to consult thoroughly, set out a more nuanced explanation: some sculptures the Cardinal received by gift, others he bought, including the wholesale purchase of some great 16th century collections such as those of the Cesi and Cesarini. Others he may have found. But he emphasized that the provenance of some of the most famous Ludovisi pieces remains a mystery.

Drawing of the “Electra and Orestes” group in the Villa Ludovisi, from F. Perrier, Segmenta Nobilium Signorum et Statuarum (1638).

Here’s what we think is a new suggestion. Perhaps Ludovico Ludovisi in developing his urban retreat did not make a series of wholly new and spectacular archaeological finds. Rather he found some of his sculptures by digging up part of an extensive 16th century collection, that had been buried on the ex-Orsini part of his property at some point before the year 1564.

As it happens, it is securely attested that Giovangirolamo de’ Rossi (1505-1564), the bishop of Pavia who owned the Rome vigna that passed directly to the Orsini and then (in 1622) Ludovico Ludovisi, hid a significant number of sculptures on that property in this way, and died before he recovered them. And five years after his death, the sons of his great Florentine patron Cosimo (I) de’ Medici, Cardinal Francesco and Ferdinando, went looking for those pieces on Orsini land, with mixed success.

So why did Bishop de’ Rossi bury a large number of statues? To us, even a cursory glance at his biographical details reveals that he had very good reason to do so.

Giovangirolamo’s parents, wed in 1503, were the condottiere Troilo (I) de’ Rossi (ca. 1462-ca. 1521, I Marquis and VI Count of San Secondo) and Bianca Riario (1478-1522). Giovangirolamo was born to them in San Secondo, 15 km northeast of Parma, on 19 June 1505.

Medal ca. 1488-1490 with obverse portrait of Caterina Sforza Riario (1463-1509), by Niccolò Spinelli (aka ‘Fiorentino’). Credit: Jean Elsen & ses Fils

Giovangirolamo de’ Rossi’s family was pugnacious on both sides. To note just Giovangirolamo’s maternal line: his mother Bianca was daughter of Girolamo Riario, Lord of Forlì and Imola, one of the organizers of the Pazzi Conspiracy of 1488 to kill Lorenzo and Giuliano de’ Medici, and himself assassinated at Forlì in 1488, and Caterina Sforza, daughter of Galeazzo Maria Sforza, Duke of Milan, descended from a long line of condottieri.

There is more. Thanks to her mother’s remarriage to Giovanni de’ Medici, Bianca Riario became also the stepsister of Giovanni dalle Bande Nere, one of the greatest men-at-arms of the Italian Renaissance. Furthermore she was great-niece of Pope Sixtus IV della Rovere (reigned 1471-1484), and cousin of Pope Julius II della Rovere (1503-1513). It is not so surprising to find a young Bianca Riario as a character in the violent video game Assassin’s Creed II (2009).

Medal (obverse) in style of Niccolò Spinelli (aka ‘Fiorentino’) with portrait of Bianca Riario (1478-1522). Credit: National Gallery of Art

In the event, Bianca’s son Giovangirolamo gained a crucial connection from the fact that she was first cousin of Cardinal Raffaele Sansoni Riario (1461-1477-1521), best known as the first important patron of Michelangelo in Rome. (The Cardinal was son of Antonio Sansoni and Violante Riario, the latter the sister of Bianca’s father Girolamo.) Though the relationship may seem a bit distant, Cardinal Riario took a direct interest in the young Giovangirolamo. When the youth was just 12 years old, Riario directed to him the benefits of the rich Cistercian abbey of Chiaravalle della Colomba, in the area of Piacenza. About the same time Pope Leo X de’ Medici appointed Giovangirolamo as apostolic protonotary.

Simplified family tree of the de’ Rossi of Parma family, late 15th / earlier 16th centuries. Credit: Hatice Köroglu Çam

The great 19th century genealogical historian Pompeo Litta has a lot to say about Giovangirolamo de’ Rossi in his Famiglie celebri italiane: Rossi di Parma (1835), including three credible accusations of murder. The first came at age 16: “in 1521, given the upheavals in the Parmesan states…he was sent to Venice, and it was good to keep him away, because he was naturally rebellious and overbearing. But what he couldn’t do in Parma he did in Venice, and on Good Friday followed by a crowd of servants dressed in the Guelf manner, accompanying the French ambassador to the church of St. Mark, insulted by Fantino Rampini of Piacenza, drawing his sword, he killed him in the church. To save him from justice, the solution was found for his brother Pier Maria to declare by act of a notary that he had ordered Rampini’s murder.”

Litta then relates that Giovangirolamo “in 1527 after allegedly causing the death of his cousin Bernardo, he went to join Clement VII [de’ Medici] in Orvieto … and when the pope returned to his capital he followed him and in 1529 was elected chamber cleric. In 1530 he exchanged the clericate with Giammaria del Monte, who ceded to him the bishopric of Pavia, a church that was run by a vicar since Rossi had not yet been ordained to any sacred order.” From his positions in the Papal chamber and as bishop of Pavia, and as beneficiary of the Cistercian abbey near Piacenza, we know that his annual income now reached a whopping 25,000 scudi.

Four years later, in 1534, Giovangirolamo tried to press the jurisdictional rights of the diocese of Pavia over the feud of Rosasco, 45 km to its west. During this dispute, its Count Alessandro Langosco was killed. “No one knew where the shot came from”, says Litta, “and Rossi, on the occasion of the election of Pope Paul III [Farnese, on 13 October 1534], went to Rome.”

Far from feeling contrite over the Langosco affair, or his two previous accusations of murder, in Rome Giovangirolamo turned his energies to securing from the new Farnese pope an appointment as cardinal—an ambition never realized, but that would consume de’ Rossi for the rest of his life. His desire for promotion was so strong that in 1537 he even engaged in a ploy to bring Florence—then ruled by his Medici relatives—under papal control. His presence with Paul III in Parma and Piacenza in 1538 sparked not a homecoming celebration, but rather riots.

Yet soon Paul III turned against the whole de’ Rossi family. The tipping point seems to have been the misadventures of Giovangirolamo’s younger brother Giulio Cesare (1519-1554), who abducted the young countess Maddalena Sanseverino, and occupied her town of Colorno (15 km north of Parma). Giovangirolamo was suspected of complicity in these acts.

Arms of the de’ Rossi family of Parma, from P. Litta, Famiglie celebri di Italia. Rossi di Parma (1838)

Pompeo Litta details what happened next. “Called under pretext to Parma, the papal legate in 1539 sent him to Rome, where he was imprisoned in Castel S. Angelo …” There he formed a bond with the goldsmith, sculptor and diarist Benvenuto Cellini, who attests to the harsh conditions they shared.

“Among [de’ Rossi’s] charges was the death of Count Langosco [in 1534], but the truth was never reached …”, continues Litta. Indeed, we have the transcripts of the trial, which stretched from 4 November 1539 to 4 July 1541, and resulted in a guilty verdict. Despite the testimony of eminent character witnesses, including the great humanist Pietro Bembo, “after two years of imprisonment he was exiled to Città di Castello [near Perugia] in 1541. However, he lost the abbey and the bishopric, which returned to his predecessor [Giammaria] Del Monte.”

Until the death of Paul III Farnese in November 1549, Rossi was barred from Rome and the Papal States, though he had freedom of movement elsewhere. He resided first in Florence, then Paris, then (in 1545) Ferrara, and (in 1546) Florence again.

In 1547, de’ Rossi is found in Pisa, composing sonnets for the deaths of Pietro Bembo and Michelangelo’s “muse”, the poet Vittoria Colonna. (He had been writing poetry since at least the mid-1520s.) That same year, he is found back in Florence, commissioning two paintings from Giorgio Vasari. In January 1548, Giovangirolamo joined his relative Ferrante Gonzaga, governor of the state of Milan, accompanying him also to Piacenza. It was through Gonzaga that de’ Rossi once again got his hands on the lucrative abbey of Chiaravalle, originally gifted to him in 1517 by his maternal cousin Cardinal Raffaele Riario.

What followed was a significant reversal in Giovangirolamo’s ill-starred fortunes of the past dozen years. The new pope, Julius III del Monte (reigned 1550-1555) “restored the bishopric to Rossi”, as Litta tells us, “and called him to Rome in 1551 as governor, and would have conferred the purple [i.e., of the cardinalate] on him if the Farnese family had not vehemently opposed his elevation…in 1555 he left the Roman court and returned to Tuscany …”

And it was in Tuscany where Giovangirolamo de’ Rossi spent his final years, under the protection of his cousin, the second Duke of Florence, Cosimo (I) de’ Medici. Giovangirolamo retired to the Villa del Barone, near Montemurlo, set between Prato and Pistoia. Though ostensibly devoting himself to literary pursuits (poetry and history), and seriously challenged by gout, he still was on the look-out for potential assassins.

Gilded bronze medal (ca. 1567) by Pietro Paolo Galeotti with obverse portrait of Cosimo I de’ Medici, second Duke of Florence (1519-1574). Credit: Baldwin’s Auctions.

On this score, a letter from 8 January 1561 that de’ Rossi wrote to Cosimo de’ Medici is instructive. Here Giovangirolamo points out that he is allowed “…due to the enmities I have, to keep with me for my safety some wheel-lock guns, large and small; you replied to me in formal words, that I should not only keep these, but also some artillery… And certainly for several months now, I had almost stopped using them, but seeing before my eyes that Alessandro Conversini [of Pistoia], who killed my brother [i.e., Giulio Cesare †1554], who used to come often half a mile to the [Villa del] Barone, and fearing for my life, has made me decide… to put them into use…” [CC, 487, 609r]. One imagines that for the artillery the bishop had at least a small company of men-at-arms at his disposal.

In the event, Bishop Giovangirolamo de’ Rossi was to meet a natural death, at his villa of Il Barone on 5 April 1564. Two nephews, both career military men, saw to Giovangirolamo’s burial arrangements in the old Prato church of Santa Trinità: Sigismondo and Ferrante de’ Rossi, sons respectively of the deceased’s elder brother Pier Maria (†1547) and younger brother Giulio Cesare (†1554).

Excerpt from P. Ireneo Alfà, Vita di Monsignore Giangirolamo Rossi de’ Marchesi di San Secondo Vescovo di Pavia (1785).

Even through his last days, Giovangirolamo managed to sustain his literary efforts. Upon learning of Michelangelo’s passing (18 February 1564), he penned a sonnet that pictures the great artist being received into heaven by the supreme Creator. It includes these lines:

“As you wander among those blessed souls without fear of heat or cold. / You recognize in those Ideas, which no one ever approached so closely in painting and sculpture, / The truth of your work, which serves as a guide and a standard for all. / Therefore, the Custodian of the eternal realm rejoices with you, / For he sees clearly how you gave a unique form to his temple [i.e., S. Peter’s]”.

There is much one can detail about the cultural interests of Giovangirolamo de’ Rossi, but here we will focus just on his passion for collecting sculptures. “What can I say”, offers the bishop’s 18th century biographer M. I. Affò [p94], “about the ancient marbles, the work of Greek and Roman chisels, which he acquired with great industry and expense, aiming to enrich his aforementioned gallery? Certainly, he spared no effort in this regard, and I must also commend the goodwill of the antiquarians who diligently scoured for such items on his behalf, which he generously compensated.”

Yet it should be clear by now that Giovangirolamo de’ Rossi’s rich but quarrelsome family background and tumultuous career gave him sufficient grounds for fearing the confiscation, theft or loss of the sculptural treasures on his Pincio estate in Rome.

It would be good to know when Giovangirolamo bought that vigna. We know the name of a previous owner (Alessandro Morelli), but not the date when the bishop acquired it, or if it was from that man. On the face of things, the most likely dates for a purchase would be during one of de’ Rossi’s two extended sojourns in Rome, either in the span 1534-1539 (before his arrest and imprisonment in Castel S. Angelo), or 1551-1555 (his tenure as papal Governor of Rome).

On Giovangirolamo’s death, his nephew, the condottiere Sigismondo de’ Rossi (1524-1580), inherited among much else the Pincio property, and promptly sold it to one Julia Petrucci. Then before 1569, Petrucci sold it to Cardinal Flavio Orsini (1532-1565-1580) [Archivio Boncompagni Ludovisi prot. 611 no. 31]. The estate later passed to the cardinal’s nephew, Giannantonio Orsini (born 1577), who in 1622 sold it—as a fully developed villa with a grand palace and formal gardens—to Ludovico Ludovisi.

Uniface medal (1560) marking the 19th birthday of Francesco de’ Medici (1541-1587). Credit: Emporium Hamburg.

The first we hear that Bishop Giovangirolamo de’ Rossi actually had buried part of his collection of antiquities is five years after his death, early in the year 1569. In the first months of that year, the bishop’s relative and former patron Cosimo (I) de’ Medici—now elevated to Grand Duke of Tuscany—took an interest in the Pincio statues on behalf of his own sons Francesco (1541-1587) and Ferdinando (1549-1609).

The story of these young men is a familiar one. Francesco was to succeed his father as Grand Duke of Tuscany in 1574. On his death in 1587, his younger brother—a cardinal since 1563, at age 13—resigned his position and ascended the throne as Ferdinando I.

Agnolo Bronzino (1559), portrait of a young Ferdinando de’ Medici (1549-1609). Credit: Museo Nazionale di Palazzo Mansi

Ferdinando was also (since 1560) a precocious collector of sculptures, aided by Cosimo Bartoli, Alessandro Valenti, and above all Giovanni Ricci, Cardinal of Montepulciano. It was Ferdinando while still cardinal who created the grand Villa Medici on Rome’s Pincio hill, in the year 1576.

The situation in 1569 was that Sigismondo de’ Rossi had offered his deceased uncle’s entire sculpture collection to the Medici. But there were complications in conveying the gift, for the pieces had to be recovered from three different locations.

One part of the bishop’s collection was at his final residence, his Tuscan villa Il Barone. That was easy. A second part was in Rome, in the possession of a friend from Parma, the writer, art collector, and casual bishop Girolamo Garimberto (1506-1575). An undated inventory for that survives, detailing about 100 works, virtually all ancient or on classical subjects. When the Medici agents attempted to recover the pieces, fully 34 of the items on the list could not be found.

S Giovanni in Laterano, Rome: funerary monument of Girolamo Garimberto (1506-1585). Credit: Wikimedia Commons.

A glance at the Garimberto inventory reveals something of the shape of Giovangirolamo de’ Rossi’s collection.

Portraits of Roman figures, especially emperors, predominate. These include sculptures identified as “Martius” (?), “Scipio”, “Brutus”, and “Julius Caesar”; also Augustus, “Marcellus”, Claudius, Vitellius, and “Julia”; Trajan and Hadrian (two of each, plus “Sabina” and Antinous); Antoninus Pius and Faustina (two of the latter), Marcus Aurelius, and Lucius Verus; Septimius Severus, Caracalla (two), Geta, and “Julia Mamaea”; also “Macrinus”, Commodus, and Gordian I, as well as a possible “young beautiful Gordian torso”.

A good number of these sculptural portraits are marked as modern works: the “Scipio”, Augustus, “Marcellus”, the Trajans and Hadrians, one of the Faustinas, and the Geta.

Note is also made of a “Pyrrhus”, “the philosopher Chrysippus”, and a “Cleopatra”, plus “a beautiful Greek woman’s head”. There is also an intriguing reference to the depiction of “unique Sabellians”—here one assumes the ancient Italic people of the central Apennines.

Then there are two ancient sculptures of Venus, as well as antique pieces identified as mythological figures: Orpheus, Ganymede, and Meleager. Plus an “intact Satyr with a little horn”, a “beautiful Satyra”, and an “intact Silenus”.

Finally, there is ample reference to incomplete or fragmented sculptures in Garimberto’s possession in Rome, like a bust without a head, heads without busts, a half-relief carving of a child, a half-column of alabaster, “stone tablets with two feet” (?), a small torso, a leg, and miscellaneous pieces that could not be found.

As for the third and final part of the de’ Rossi collection, it was buried in his former Roman vineyard, now owned by Cardinal Flavio Orsini. These are said to be comparable in quality to those found at Garimberto’s Rome residence, and not many in number.

Indeed the Medici started digging for the buried treasure in Rome already in late January 1569—said to be an expensive and uncertain proposition. The issue was that Girolamo Garimberto apparently had a list of sculptures hidden on the Orsini estate, but only a general map of where to look.

On 25 March 1569, Cardinal Ferdinando de’ Medici summed up the state of affairs to his elder brother Francesco: “the statues of Count Sigismondo that are in the hands of Garimberto are at our disposal; the few others, no less good, which remain in the Orsini vineyard, will be obtained with difficulty, although the Abbot [= the vineyard’s owner, Cardinal Flavio Orsini, abbot of Subiaco] will make efforts to release them.”

Palazzo della Carovana (Pisa): stemma of the condottiere Sigismondo de’ Rossi (1524-1580). Credit: Wikimedia Commons.

By now, Cosimo de’ Medici had taken a direct interest in his sons’ division of the statues, charging one Stefano Lalli to supervise the task. On 16 April 1569, Lalli reported to Francesco de’ Medici (evidently in Florence) that the Garimberto portion of the collection was ready for distribution, and his brother Cardinal Ferdinando was eager to get his share. But “the antiques buried in the vineyard that belonged to the Bishop of Pavia” on the Pincio were still inaccessible. Indeed, the vigna’s current owner, Cardinal Orsini, was contemplating selling the land, introducing a further complication.

Lalli emphasizes to Francesco the need for absolute secrecy in this matter: since “in this inventory [i.e., the one provided by Garimberto] there is the notice of the place where the said antiques are buried in the vineyard, it seemed to me to advise His Most Illustrious Lordship that it would be good not to disclose it to anyone else, so that it may not be known by others, but only by Your Excellency and His Most Illustrious Lordship [i.e., Ferdinando], who told me that he will be informed about this and that he will not reveal it to anyone.”

A week later, on 24 April 1569, Stefano Lalli could report to Francesco de’ Medici major progress in the treasure hunt. He writes that Garimberto had unearthed “all these heads and other antiquities that were buried by the Bishop of Pavia in his vineyard”. Plus he possessed a head of the Gallicola [= Caligula], five times larger than life, which, he said, was given to him by the members of the Rossi family, showing a letter they wrote to him.”

In the event, we learn from Stefano Lalli that Cardinal Ferdinando had instructed him and Diomede Lioni “to verify and identify all these antiques together, following the inventory that Your Excellency [i.e., Francesco] sent me”. The process involved significant confusion. True, many pieces could be recognized from the inventory of vigna statues, even given their poor maintenance. But others emerged that were not on the list. Lalli also flatly states that many of the pieces were junk. Still, Cardinal Ferdinando decided that there were enough worthwhile sculptures to send to his brother via the port of Civitavecchia, where a ship was waiting to transport that portion of the lot to Tuscany.

And with that, the work of digging on the Orsini vineyard apparently stops. “It seems to us”, reports Lalli, “that we have no other information about these antiques than what Monsieur Garimberto says, which should be taken in the manner he confesses.” He continues that “the other statues that are in the vineyard that are seen, have not yet been discussed or dealt with” pending the possible sale of the vineyard.

San Quirico d’Orcia, S Maria Assunta: commemorative marker for Diomede Leoni (1514-1577), founder of the Horti Leonini in that town. Credit: Wikimedia Commons.

On 12 May 1569 the ship captain at Civitavecchia was still waiting orders whether to bring Francesco’s part of the de’ Rossi collection to Tuscany. So Lalli writes a request to the elder brother “to have the resolution of Your Excellency as to whether you are satisfied to receive the antiquities held by Monsieur Garimberto of Your Excellency and our Cardinal in the manner in which he wishes to deliver them, saying truthfully that those he has shown us are all that he has in the hands of Monsieur de Pavia, and so I believe it to be. However, because we do not find the complete correspondence [of sculptures] according to Your Most Illustrious Excellency’s inventory, Mr. Diomede Lioni and I resolved not to receive them without the will of our Cardinal, who, after hearing everything, instructed me to notify you.”

Evidently no prompt response arrived from Francesco, since by 20 May 1569 the ship had left for Tuscany without its intended cargo. So Lalli and Diomede Leoni made the division for the two brothers of the de’ Rossi statues in Rome, where they were to be kept for collection. We do not know when Francesco picked up his part and brought it to Florence; those destined for Cardinal Francesco likely remained in Rome.

Excerpt from Giuseppe Bencivenni Pelli, Saggio Istorico della Real Galleria di Firenze (1779).

Writing almost a full two centuries later, in 1779, the Florentine antiquarian Giuseppe Bencivenni Pelli tells us “between Cardinal Ferdinando and Prince Francesco, in…1569, in Rome, the division was made of the statues already owned by the Bishop of Pavia, Giovangirolamo de’ Rossi of Parma, a prelate not unknown for his learning, for his riches, and for the vicissitudes to which he was subjected… and from these statues, XXXI went to the second and XXVIII to the first.”

If this report of a total number of 59 pieces is correct, the Medici brothers took possession of only a portion of the de’ Rossi collection. We have seen that Garimberto’s inventory of ancient and modern items approached 100, and it is uncertain whether that list encompassed also all the sculptures said to be buried in the vigna.

So where are we? It may be that this complicated tale in Medici records of the partial recovery and division of a 16th century sculptural collection buried on the Pincio has a certain relevance to the formation of the Villa Ludovisi. Can it be that Cardinal Ludovico Ludovisi, in the excavation work of 1621-1622 on his urban retreat, was able to find items buried by Giovangirolamo de’ Rossi that had eluded the Medici and for that matter the Orsini?

From left, depictions of the Ludovisi Pan by Hamlet Winstanley (1723); Pompeo Batoni (ca. 1727-1730); Bernardino Ciferri (ca. 1710-30), and Antonio Canova (1780).

Following this hypothesis, one work of art immediately suggests itself as an ex-de’ Rossi piece found on the grounds: the full size sculpture of Pan that somehow enters the Ludovisi collection by 1633. As Hatice Köroğlu Çam has shown in a four-part series of articles on this website, it was long considered an ancient piece, but starting with Winckelmann in 1756 was rightly identified as modern, owing to its strong correspondences with the work of Michelangelo.

In the (slender) modern scholarship on this statue, no one has doubted that it is a work of the 16th century. But can it really be by the hand of Michelangelo itself? One massive objection to the attribution was recently voiced succinctly by Victor Coonin: it enters the 17th century Ludovisi collection seemingly out of nowhere. “That everybody would’ve ignored it or didn’t know about it”, explains Coonin, “that Michelangelo wouldn’t have mentioned it to anyone, that nobody mentioned it as being a Michelangelo within Michelangelo’s lifetime — I think that that’s rather unlikely for such a large and idiosyncratic sculpture to escape complete mention in the literature.”

Detail of frescoes in the Aula di Adone, Rocca dei Rossi, San Secondo Parmense: portrait (presumed) of Giovangirolamo de’ Rossi. Credit: R. Pagani / flickr

However, if its provenance was the collection of Bishop Giovangirolamo de’ Rossi, specifically the part he buried for safekeeping on the Pincio on land that Cardinal Ludovisi subsequently developed, that would explain how this large sculpture could go missing for much of the 16th and early 17th century, and be mistaken as an ancient sculpture when finally excavated.

As we have seen, the figure of de’ Rossi provides a straight line from Michelangelo to the Orsini portion of the future Villa Ludovisi. Cardinal Raffaele Riario, who gave Michelangelo his first major commission in Rome, was the bishop’s relative and energetic patron. De’ Rossi himself was also related to the Medici, spent much of his adult life in either Rome or Florence, and lavished praise on Michelangelo (as well as Vittoria Colonna) in his poetry.

What is more, Bishop de’ Rossi clearly was interested in woodland deities: as we have seen, an (incomplete) inventory of his collection of sculptures shows figures of both a male and female satyr, as well as a Silenus. He also invokes “the god Pan” in his verse. Put simply, if Michelangelo or a contemporary follower had created the Ludovisi Pan, there is no practical objection to it featuring in de’ Rossi’s collection.

As Hatice Köroglu Çam has shown at length on this website, the Ludovisi Pan shows close correspondences to a number of Michelangelo’s works in different media. Of sculptures, it is perhaps the “Bacchus” (1497)—purchased by Cardinal Raffaele Riario—that offers the closest parallels.

Detail of frescoes in the Aula di Adone, Rocca dei Rossi, San Secondo Parmense: portrait of Cardinal Raffaele Riario. Credit: R. Pagani / flickr

What follows is a review of what we know about Riario’s commission of that work, and what Michelangelo’s biographer Ascanio Condivi has to say about the relationship between artist and patron.

Michelangelo Buonarroti made his first visit to Rome on 25 June 1496 upon the invitation of Cardinal Raffaelle Riario, cardinal deacon of S Giorgio in Velabro. Michelangelo stayed in the city until 1501. As recounted in 1553 by his authorized biographer, Ascanio Condivi, he spent a year under the patronage of Cardinal Riario, while also enjoying the support of Jacopo Galli and Cardinal Jean Bilheres de Lagraulas. Cardinal Riario, renowned for his collection of antiquities and his patronage of the arts, was Michelangelo’s first patron in Rome.

Medal (unsigned) with obverse portrait of Lorenzo di Pier Francesco de’ Medici (1463-1503). The reverse depicts a bear with cub. Credit: Leipziger Münzhandlung und Auktion Heidrun Höhn.

In his first letter (2 July 1496) to Lorenzo di Pier Francesco de’ Medici, who belonged to the younger branch of the powerful Florentine family, Michelangelo explicitly reveals that Cardinal Riario had commissioned him to carve a statue of Bacchus. He provides intricate details, specifically mentioning the acquisition of marble, presumably for the “Bacchus”, a notable achievement, marking “the first large-scale marble sculpture of Bacchus since antiquity”, as noted by H. O’Leary McStay. In this letter, Michelangelo recounts Cardinal Riario’s warm reception, detailing his introduction to the cardinal’s esteemed antique collections housed within the Cancelleria Palace. Here Michelangelo subtly hints at the “Bacchus” commission, stating, “we have bought a piece of marble for a life-sized figure and on Monday I shall begin work” (Ramsden, Letters p3). The letter to Lorenzo di Pier Francesco de’ Medici is worth quoting in full:

“This is only to let you know that we arrived safely last Saturday and at once went to call upon the Cardinal di San Giorgio [i.e., Riario], to whom I presented your letter. He seemed pleased to see me and immediately desired me to go and look at certain figures; this took me all day, so I could not deliver your other letters that day. Then on Sunday, having gone to his new house, the Cardinal sent for me. I waited upon him, and he asked me what I thought of the things I had seen. In reply to this I told him what I thought; and I certainly think he has many beautiful things. Then the Cardinal asked me whether I had courage enough to attempt some work of art of my own. I replied that I could not do anything as fine, but that he should see what I could do. We have bought a piece of marble for a life-sized figure and on Monday I shall begin work.”

“Then last Monday I presented your other letters to Pagolo Rucellai, who placed the money at my disposal, and to the Cavalcanti likewise. Then I gave Baldassare his letter and asked him for the cupid, saying that I would return the money. He replied very sharply that he would sooner smash it into a hundred pieces; that he had bought the cupid and it was his; that he had letters showing that the buyer was satisfied and that he had no expectation of having it to return. He complained bitterly about you, saying that you had maligned him. Some of our Florentines sought to arrange matters between us, but they effected nothing. Now I count upon acting through the Cardinal, for thus I am advised by Baldassare Balducci. You shall be informed as to what ensues. That’s all this time. I commend me to you. May God keep you from harm.” MICHELANGELO IN ROME.

Nevertheless, Ascanio Condivi, Michelangelo’s pupil and official biographer, implicitly dismisses the notion of the commission by Cardinal Riario, while also critiquing the cardinal’s taste and knowledge of art. Both Condivi and Vasari assert that it was Jacopo Galli, a rich banker and collector, who was the patron who commissioned “Bacchus”. Scholars concur that Michelangelo—as Condivi mentions—sculpted his “Bacchus” at Jacopo Galli’s house in Rome. Indeed E. Sutherland Minter highlights the earliest description of Bacchus—at Galli’s house in 1506.

All this raises a question: why did Michelangelo come to Rome at that time and meet with Cardinal Riario? As it happens, this July 1496 letter of Michelangelo unveils the true genesis of the story. The answer lies with his “Sleeping Cupid” referenced in the letter. Both Condivi and Vasari recount the well-known tale of this life-size sculpture—”a god of love, aged six or seven years old and asleep”, as Condivi describes it—which Michelangelo had carved in Florence the previous year, in 1495, aged just 20.

Drawing of a cupid (Windsor Castle inv. 8914), possibly depicting the (lost) Sleeping Cupid of Michelangelo. Credit: Paul F. Norton, The Art Bulletin 39 (1957).

According to Vasari, the tale unfolds as follows. Baldassare del Milanese showed the Cupid to Lorenzo di Pier Francesco de’ Medici as a splendid piece of craftsmanship. Lorenzo then advised Michelangelo, “If you were to bury it, I am certain it would pass as an ancient work. If you were to send it to Rome treated to appear old, you would earn much more than by selling it here.” Vasari elaborates this story, “the artist manipulated the stone to give it an aged appearance. Subsequently, Baldassare del Milanese buried it in a vineyard near Rome and sold it as an antique to Cardinal Raffaele Riario for 200 ducats.”

Upon realizing that he had acquired a “counterfeit antiquity,” Riario returned the sculpture and received a full refund. Vasari remarks that Cardinal Riario “failed to recognize the value of this sculpture.” When Michelangelo learned of the incident, Baldassare had already made a significant profit, and despite Michelangelo’s demands, the dealer refused to return the artwork. The second part of Michelangelo’s 2 July 1496 letter recounts this narrative. While Condivi concludes that “no one suffered more from this ordeal than Michelangelo,” Vasari suggests that this event elevated Michelangelo’s reputation to such an extent that he was promptly invited to Rome and received into the household of Cardinal San Giorgio (i.e., Cardinal Riario), where he resided for almost a year.

Maarten van Heemskerck (ca. 1532-1536), Garden of the Casa Galli. Berlin, Staatliche Museen, Kupferstichkabinett, Inv. 79 D 2, fol. 72 recto. Credit: Wikimedia Commons.

E. Wind confirms Riario’s admiration for Michelangelo’s talent, noting that the style of the Liberalitas on Riario’s medal reflects his pseudo-antique taste. Wind also discusses Maarten van Heemskerck‘s drawing (ca. 1532-1536) of the sculpture garden of Jacopo Galli. There the “Bacchus” is depicted with a broken hand, suggesting that “in the drawing, the statue was perceived as pseudo-antique.” The drawing reveals that the right hand of Michelangelo’s statue was broken off below the wrist—possibly to be restored with the original hand holding an all’antica wine bowl—while the penis remains chiseled away. The collection of Trinity College Cambridge offers another Renaissance-era depiction of the “Bacchus”. Significantly, the inscription on the Cambridge drawing reads: “Scoltur de Michelangeli the which was buried in the grownd and fond for antick”. McStay suggests that the breakage of the hand “was done on purpose to enhance the appearance of antiquity.”

Drawing after Michelangelo’s “Bacchus”, Cambridge sketchbook, fol. 14. Cambridge: Trinity College Library. Credit: Linda A. Koch, Art History 29 (2006).

Both Condivi and Vasari connect this narrative of “Sleeping Cupid” to the “Bacchus” commission. However each rejects the notion that Riario was the commissioning patron, and instead attribute agency to Jacopo Galli. Both these biographers assert that Cardinal San Giorgio (Cardinal Riario) had little comprehension of the arts and did not engage Michelangelo in any significant tasks. Condivi, in particular, is eager to emphasize that “Michelangelo was never officially commissioned by San Giorgio (Cardinal Riario) to undertake any work.”

If we agree with Condivi’s and Vasari’s assertion, we have to believe that Jacopo Galli commissioned the “Bacchus”. However, Wind specifically highlights Condivi’s unreliability regarding such descriptions despite the fact that he wrote under Michelangelo’s direct supervision, suggesting that “it is difficult to trust Condivi on any detail”. It is crucial to remember, as Minter points out, that neither Condivi nor Vasari were even born at the time when “Bacchus” was carved. Moreover, both Cardinal Riario and Galli were dead by the time Condivi wrote his Vita.

Item from accounts (1496-1497) of Baldassare Balducci, showing payment by Cardinal Riario to Michelangelo for the Bacchus. Credit: M. Hirst, The Burlington Magazine 123 (1981).

Minter further underscores a decisive point, for which we have documentary evidence: that Michelangelo received full payment for “Bacchus” from Cardinal Riario. McStay explains how the patronage worked, stating that, though it was Cardinal Riario who provided financial support and sponsorship of the artist’s work, Michelangelo carved his “Bacchus” at Galli’s residence. Minter notes that “on September 19th, 1496, Riario sent two barrels of wine to Michelangelo at Jacopo Galli’s house.”

It was M. Hirst who in 1981 provided conclusive details about Michelangelo’s commission, drawing on entries in the account books of Baldassare Balducci. Hirst shows that the Libro di Creditori e Debitori 1496-98, Balducci Libro no. 2, confirms Riario’s patronage and specifies the execution date of the “Bacchus”, namely the summer of 1496 into the summer of 1497. This account records three payments, all from Riario’s funds, with one specifically designated for the “Bacchus” commission.

Indeed, Vasari’s account of Lorenzo di Pier Francesco de’ Medici’s suggestion to Michelangelo to bury a modern statue to create an antique impression adds an intriguing dimension to this study, namely using inhumation in the creation of pseudo-antiques. H. Bredekamp highlights both Michelangelo’s “Sleeping Cupid”, which is said to have conveyed an antique impression thanks to this method, and the (intentionally) damaged state of “Bacchus”‘s hand and penis. Bredekamp also mentions some reports suggesting that Michelangelo not only intentionally mutilated this figure but even buried it with the intention of later unearthing it as an authentic antique. The annotated Cambridge sketch of the “Bacchus” of course reflects that tradition.

This brings us to another essential problem to highlight: the creation of sculptures of pagan deities such as the “Bacchus” within the deeply Christian atmosphere of the late 15th and 16th centuries. L. Freedman underscores that “cardinals of the church typically did not commission statues of pagan gods and goddesses; instead, they tended to collect genuine antiquities”. However, “when authentic antique statues were unavailable on the market”, Freedman says, “it is likely that copies or replicas would have been commissioned”. Cardinal Riario’s rejection of “Bacchus” but his full payment for its execution implies his dilemma about commissioning a pagan deity in such a climate.

As one can imagine, the issue would have been particularly acute in the case of the Ludovisi Pan, an indubitably late fifteenth or sixteenth century sculpture that represents the Greek woodland god with an erect phallus. Who in the sphere of contemporary Papal Rome would dare to commission such a pagan statue with such a provocative feature and display it prominently in one’s garden?

Comparison of details of Michelangelo, Bacchus (1496-7), Museo Nazionale del Bargello, Florence (via Wikimedia Commons), at left, with Ludovisi Pan (credit: TC Brennan), at right.

As Hatice Köroglu Çam has shown in detail on this website, there are strong stylistic similarities between the Ludovisi Pan and Michelangelo’s “Bacchus”. Consider the left hand of the Pan and the primary motifs of the left hand of “Bacchus”. It can be seen that they show nearly identical gestures—except that the index finger is not curved in the case of Pan. Both figures also hold animal pelts, a motif derived from Greek and Roman art. There is also a general resemblance between the Pan and the satyr figure in the “Bacchus” group: notably, the pointed ears, the carving of animal heads leaning against the left legs of both the satyr and Pan, and the rendering of their hoofs. Moreover, the curled beard and hair of the Ludovisi Pan bear a striking resemblance to the depiction of the individual twisted curls of hair on the head of the satyr in Michelangelo’s “Bacchus” group. These curls are depicted independently as a distinct stylistic component of the hair.

Comparison of details of Michelangelo, Bacchus (1496-7), Museo Nazionale del Bargello, Florence (via Wikimedia Commons), at left, with Ludovisi Pan (credit: TC Brennan), at right.

As it happens, the “Bacchus” and the Pan also show parallels in the fate of their reception as Pagan gods. Bacchus’s portrayal, reflecting his excessive indulgence in wine, demonstrates Michelangelo’s profound engagement with the character of the figure—indeed its very essence. Freedman goes further, and describes how “Bacchus is portrayed as being aware of the potential dangerous effects of wine”. Yet the “Bacchus” has faced criticism, as Liberman notes, for his “awkward pose, vulgar facial expression, and softly effeminate pose”.

Similarly, the Pan, has often been disparaged, especially since the 1850s, for his perceived ugliness—even described as “a little bit lifeless” by Victor Coonin. But it is difficult to see how, if Michelangelo had created a statue of the Greek god, he could have avoided depicting an ugly figure with pointed ears, horns, and an erect phallus, accompanied by a laughing mouth. That depiction is consistent with the mythological and artistic conventions surrounding Pan’s portrayal. The expression conveyed by Pan shares a similar motivation to that of the “Bacchus”. Pan’s face, coupled with a laughing mouth, vividly portrays his mischievous and lustful nature, but also a sense of awareness reflecting his unpredictable nature.

Comparison of details of Michelangelo, Bacchus (1496-7), Museo Nazionale del Bargello, Florence (via Wikimedia Commons), at left, with Ludovisi Pan (credit: TC Brennan), at right.

Put simply, the two sculptures show a number of strong similarities, so many that we must consider the possibility that Michelangelo created both sculptures, perhaps even in close proximity to each other. The numerous points of comparison underscore the sculptor’s ability to convey the essence and mood associated with each figure through their physical attributes, facial expressions, gesture, and accoutrements. Each piece highlights the sculptor’s skill in bringing characters to life and capturing their distinctive personalities and traits in his art.

Let us sum up the focus of our investigations here. The “Bacchus” group that Cardinal Raffaele Riario commissioned Michelangelo to create in 1496 shows many striking points of contact with the Pan, a piece that is found in the earliest stratum of the Ludovisi collection of sculptures. There is also a direct line that connects Cardinal Riario with Cardinal Ludovico Ludovisi, namely Riario’s relative and protegée Bishop Giovangirolamo de’ Rossi, who in the mid-sixteenth century is known to have buried part of his large collection of sculptures on his Pincio vigna, land that later passed to the Orsini and then the Ludovisi. Furthermore, when we recall testimonies regarding the Pan from the 17th and 18th century such as those of Pietro Sebastiani (1683)—indeed all who discuss the work before Winckelmann in 1756—it is clear that the statue was universally regarded as ancient in date.

Our hypothesis? The Pan statue, whose face resembles that of Michelangelo himself, is either by the master or at the very least by one of his contemporaries seeking to emulate his style closely. The fact that the statue escapes all notice in the sixteenth and early seventeenth century suggests the possibility that this statue was deliberately buried by someone—one suspects immediately the factious Bishop de’ Rossi—and later unearthed by Cardinal Ludovico Ludovisi on ex-de’ Rossi property. The motive for burying? Safekeeping comes most immediately to mind, especially given Bishop de’ Rossi’s tumultuous career. Alternatively, one also remembers the story of Michelangelo burying the “Sleeping Cupid” and the similar rumors (discussed by Bredekamp) concerning his “Bacchus” group, where Michelangelo’s creations are in on or both cases passed off as authentic antiques.

It is possible a similar situation may have obtained here with the Pan. Indeed, as we have seen, L. Freedman has suggested that with the “Bacchus”, Michelangelo aimed to create a statue that could immediately deceive spectators into believing it to be authentically antique. Whatever the precise case, the hypothesis that the Pan was long buried, on land that passed from Giovangirolamo de’ Rossi to the Orsini and then to the Ludovisi, may help us comprehend the origins of the Ludovisi Pan, and its reception as an ancient statue well into the 18th century, when on the basis of connoisseurship a consensus formed that it was by the hand of Michelangelo.

SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY

Barocchi, P. and G. Gaeta Bertelà. 1993. Collezionismo mediceo: Cosimo I, Francesco I e il Cardinale Ferdinando. Documenti (1540-1587). Modena: Franco Cosimo Panini Editore.

Boyer, F. 1933. “Nouveaux documents sur ls antiques Médicis (1560-1583)”. Études Italiennes 3: 5-16.

Bramanti, V. 1995. Giovangirolamo de’ Rossi: Vita di Federico Montefeltro. Florence: Leo S. Olschki Editore.

Bull, G. and P. Porter. 2009. Michelangelo, life, letters, and poetry. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Bredekamp, H. 2021. Michelangelo. Berlin: Verlag Klaus Wagenbach.

Freedman, L. 2003. “Michelangelo’s Reflections on Bacchus.” Artibus et Historiae 24: 121–35.

Hirst, M. 1981. “Michelangelo in Rome: An Altar-Piece and the ‘Bacchus.’” The Burlington Magazine 123: 581–93.

Lieberman, R. 2001. “Regarding Michelangelo’s ‘Bacchus.’” Artibus et Historiae 22: 65–74.

McStay, H. O’Leary. 2014. ‘Viva Bacco e viva Amore’: Bacchic Imagery in the Renaissance. Diss. Columbia University.

Minter, E. S. 2014. “Discarded Deity: The Rejection of Michelangelo’s ‘Bacchus’ and the Artist’s Response.” Renaissance Studies 28: 443–58.

Ramsden, E.H. 1963. The Letters of Michelangelo. Vol. 1. Stanford: Stanford University Press.

Wind, Edgar. 1995. “A Bacchic Mystery by Michelangelo”. In Michelangelo: Selected Scholarship in English, ed. William E. Wallace. New York & London: Garland.

Hatice Köroglu Çam (she/her) is currently pursuing her PhD in Italian Renaissance art at Temple University’s Tyler School of Art and Architecture. She graduated with honors, achieving summa cum laude, from Rutgers University in 2022 with a B.A. in Art History. During the spring and summer of 2022, Hatice completed an internship at the Archivio Digitale Boncompagni Ludovisi project. Over the past two years, Hatice has delved deeply into her research on a 16th-century statue of Pan located in the gardens of the Casino dell’Aurora in Rome. Under the guidance of Professor T. Corey Brennan from the Rutgers Classics Department, her exploration has led to significant scholarly contributions, culminating in a comprehensive four-part article titled “A New Self-Portrait of Michelangelo? The Statue of Pan at the Casino dell’Aurora in Rome.” Hatice has presented her findings at the ‘Pan and the Anthropocene’ symposium hosted by Bristol University on 20 July 2023, and at the Classical Association of Atlantic States annual meeting on 6 October 2023. She expresses profound gratitude to Professor Brennan for introducing her to this unstudied work of art and for offering invaluable contributions, interpretations, guidance, and support throughout the research process. Hatice expresses her gratitude to HSH Princess Rita Boncompagni Ludovisi for her unwavering support, encouragement, and dedication to preserving the statue, which served as a significant inspiration throughout her research journey. Her invaluable support has played a pivotal role in the success of this study.

The Ludovisi Pan at the Casino dell’Aurora, October 2022. Credit: TC Brennan.

By Hatice Köroglu Çam (Rutgers ’22)

Uncovering the Ludovisi Pan on 15 February 2011 at the Casino dell’Aurora following its most recent conservation and cleaning, at the initiative of †HSH Prince Nicolò Boncompagni Ludovisi and HSH Princess Rita Boncompagni Ludovisi. Photo: T. Corey Brennan

Introduction

Since the early 17th century, the garden of the Villa Ludovisi in Rome has been home to a 16th-century statue, originally one of the pieces of the sculpture collection of Cardinal Ludovico Ludovisi (1595-1621-1632). The statue, known as the Ludovisi Pan, depicts the mythological god with a half-human and half-goat appearance exhibiting horns, pointed ears, goat-like legs, an erect phallus, and an animal pelt draped over his right shoulder covering half of the back. This heavily muscled, life-sized marble statue of Pan, which stands against a support in the form of a large tree trunk, was in the later 18th and earlier 19th centuries commonly attributed to Michelangelo Buonarroti (1475-1564).

This is no longer the case. The Italian state’s official inventory of the artwork of the Casino dell’Aurora (19 June 2019), executed by Professor Alessandro Zuccari, dates the sculpture to “the end of the XVI century”. It terms the Pan “of excellent workmanship and in good state of conservation”, and lists the value of the statue as 250,000 euros. Significantly, it states that the attribution to Michelangelo was made “erroneously…in the 16th and 17th centuries”.

My research, in the form of a series of posts on this blog, questions this interpretation of the Pan. I have argued that distinctive details of the Pan are consistent with Michelangelo’s stylistic language, and presented documentary evidence—including inventory records, notices from guidebooks, and unpublished sketches and historical photographs—that both strengthen the attribution to Michelangelo, and clarify possible reasons behind the persistent underestimation of this statue. I also emphasize how the finer details of the statue are on the verge of disappearing.

The ‘Pan’ attributed to Michelangelo at the Casino dell’Aurora, Rome, October 2022. Photo: T. Corey Brennan

In my first post, “A new self-portrait of Michelangelo? The statue of Pan at the Casino dell’Aurora in Rome. Part I: Correspondences”, I presented a deep analysis of Michelangelo’s works of art in all mediums to compare the stylistic similarities exhibited by the Ludovisi Pan. This investigation gave us a good number of correspondences. The most pronounced of these is the striking similarity between the facial depiction of the mask featured in Michelangelo’s Dream of Human Life, widely recognized as his self-portrait, and the depiction of Pan and its expression. In light of these and other observations, this study defends the traditional attribution of Ludovisi Pan to Michelangelo and further argues that the statue is a representation of Michelangelo’s self-portrait.

Left: ‘Pan’ attributed to Michelangelo at the Casino dell’ Aurora. Photo by the author. Right: detail of Michelangelo, Il Sogno (The Dream).

My second post, “Part II: Testimonia (sketches, earlier inventories)” featured various representations of the Ludovisi Pan from the 18th century, including drawings by Hamlet Winstanley, Pompeo Batoni, Bernardino Ciferri, and Antonio Canova. During my research on this statue, I presented a second drawing by Michelangelo of a faun-like creature (from Frankfurt’s Städel Museum), and emphasized the stylistic similarities of Pan’s facial depiction by Winstanley. I also discussed Villa Ludovisi inventories from 1633, 1641, 1733, and 1749, which not only provide information on the physical location of the Ludovisi Pan but also indicate its high value at 4000 scudi in the 1749 inventory.

Left: detail of Michelangelo, Grotesque Heads and Other Studies (recto) ca. 1525, Städel Museum, Frankfurt. Right: Hamlet Winstanley, Statue of Pan (1723), Corpus Christi College, Oxford. Image credit: L. C. Bulman

In Part III: Reception, I focused on the presentation, physical location, and the reception of the Ludovisi Pan by collecting scholarly reactions to the traditional attribution to Michelangelo. This portion of my research highlighted that before the 1760s, no guidebook identified the statue as Michelangelo’s work, but its explicit identification as such became common after ca. 1770, especially in French sources. Additionally, I discussed the statue’s placement in four different locations on the Villa Ludovisi’s property and argued that the statue’s subject matter (specifically, its ithyphallicism) had a negative impact on its physical location, acceptance, and ultimate fate.

From J. Lacombe, Dictionnaire historique et géographique portatif de l’Italie, Volume 1 (1775), apparently the first published identification of the Ludovisi Pan as Michelangelo’s work

In my Parts II and III, I already focused on the issue of the deteriorating condition of the Ludovisi Pan by comparing its current state with its past state. This post aims to delve deeper into this matter by closely examining the current physical condition of the Ludovisi Pan. Despite the Pan statue’s ability to express Michelangelo’s sculptural language (as discussed in Part I), and the presence of numerous valuable testimonies linking it to the artist (as explored in Part III), it has suffered significant deterioration over four centuries due to its outdoor location, resulting in its underestimation as a work of art.

Indeed, the Pan has been wholly unprotected from the elements since ca. 1900; in 2011, when the Pan was last conserved, efforts by Princess Rita Boncompagni Ludovisi to get permission to move the sculpture indoors did not meet with success.

Yet the statue clearly shows a loss of surface detail, probably due to external and environmental factors such as weather conditions and acid rain on this statue, which are irreversible. My intention also is to highlight areas damaged in a much earlier era, repaired with metal pieces, as well as point up residues on the marble surface of the statue. Here I highlight the urgent need for its preservation for future generations.

As part of our examination of the statue’s physical condition, this post will also discuss a significant but undiscussed feature of the statue’s base: an inscribed inventory number, carved in large numerals demonstrably no later than 1633. I will explore how this discovery can aid in tracing the statue’s provenance by cross-referencing it with other such inventory numbers on sculptures from the Ludovisi collection, more than two dozen in all.

Physical condition of the Ludovisi Pan: Holes and metal pieces

At first glance, the 16th-century life-sized Ludovisi Pan may appear to be in good condition. But a thorough analysis of its former attributes is necessary to determine the differences between its past and present state of preservation.

As I discussed in Part II and Part III, representations of this statue by 18th century artists such as Pompeo Batoni, Bernardino Ciferri, and Antonio Canova offer insight into the statue’s former condition, with all of its distinctive details. Additionally, Hamlet Winstanley’s (1723) drawing not only attests to details that have since disappeared, including facial features and portions of the beard, but also confirms what we find in traveler accounts by Francis Mortoft (1659) and Pietro Rossini (1693), extending to Carlo Fea (1822), J.-C. Fulchiron (1841), Giuseppe Robello (1854), and Armand de Pontmartin (1865), all of which praise the Ludovisi Pan and provide further reactions to the statue’s vivid details.

From left, depictions of the Ludovisi Pan by Hamlet Winstanley (1723); Pompeo Batoni (ca. 1727-1730); Bernardino Ciferri (ca. 1710-30), and Antonio Canova (1780). See my Part II for full discussion.

Depictions of the statue in photographs from 1885 (originally for a private family photo album) and even as late as 1986 (provided by Maria Elisa Micheli in Beatrice Palma’s comprehensive catalogue of ex-Ludovisi sculptures) also highlight fine details now vanished.

Images of the Pan by Maria Elisa Micheli (1986, in Palma I 6) and Ignazio Boncompagni Ludovisi (1885, from a family photo album ‘Villa Ludovisia’)

In this segment of this research, my focus will shift to the examination of each individual damaged component of the statue, in order to underscore the pressing need for the preservation of this 16th-century artwork. My study reveals that the Ludovisi Pan has damaged areas that fall into five distinct categories: holes, in some of which metal pieces are visible; cracks; broken parts; scratches; and residues.

It was Professor T. Corey Brennan who drew my attention in photos of the sculpture to a visible series of shallow drilled holes in the Pan sculpture. These holes are principally found at the neckline (beneath the beard), on the right hand, and on the stomach (from the viewer’s perspective to the left-hand side); additional holes can be seen on other parts of Pan’s body. Notably, two of these holes still have rusty metal pieces protruding from them.

A metal piece and holes on the neckline of the Pan. Photo: T. Corey Brennan.

Upon closer analysis, it becomes clear that the insertion of one particular metal piece, now rusted, has caused a crack to form on the surface of the lip, particularly on the left side. This metal pin and the hole located on the upper lip are prominently visible in photographs from 1986 that were provided by Micheli.

Detail of the Pan showing the metal pieces on the lip, seen also in Maria Elisa Micheli’s 1986 photo.

Additionally, Micheli’s photographs show the beard in a condition markedly dissimilar from its present state. From examination of our recent photos and comparison with Micheli’s photos, it is evident that a considerable gap has appeared in Pan’s beard over the course of almost 40 years.

Left: Ludovisi Pan in 1986 by Maria Elise Micheli. Right: Ludovisi Pan in 2022 with breaks in the beard (photo: T. Corey Brennan)

Indeed, to fully understand the changes that have occurred to the Ludovisi Pan over time, it is important to closely compare depictions of the statue from different periods. Notably, a comparison between Hamlet Winstanley’s 1723 depiction and a photograph taken in 2022 reveals a striking absence of the mustache, particularly in the middle of the space where it should be located between the nose and lip. This gap is also visible in a 2022 profile photo of the statue, which exposes the missing section over the upper lip.

Detail of Ludovisi Pan showing the missing middle part of the mustache. Photo: T. Corey Brennan

In addition, a comparison between the appearance of the beard in Winstanley’s depiction, in 1885 photographs, and in recent (2022) images, shows that the beard has lost its original shape over time.

Left: Ludovisi Pan in 2022. Top right: the detail of Hamlet Winstanley’s depiction showing the former state of the beard. Bottom right: detail of the holes and metal pieces on the upper lip.

The presence in the front neck area of holes and metal parts suggests various attempts to repair or reinforce portions of the beard. However, their specific function remains unclear. The holes and metal pins located on the upper lip and behind the damaged beard seem unrelated to numerous other smaller holes present on the statue, including its back and front.

Detail of the Ludovisi Pan displaying the holes on the different parts of the body. Photo: T. Corey Brennan

One hole, however, that has been conclusively identified, thanks to 18th-century drawings and historical photos from 1885, is the large hole located in the statue’s genitalia. This hole served as the place where a large (apparently metal) fig leaf was hung, as I discussed in Part III. While Joseph Vernet‘s 1737 depiction portrays the statue with an enormous fig leaf, Antonio Canova’s 1780 sketch highlights this hole in his drawing while depicting Pan without the fig leaf. Additionally, photos from 1885 explicitly show the statue with a fig leaf. All of these visual pieces of evidence help to elucidate the purpose of the hole in Pan’s genitalia.

Left: Antonio Canova’s Ludovisi Pan depiction showing the hole on the genitalia (from Palma I 4 ). Center: Joseph Vernet, sketch (1737) of the Niche with Pan beneath a sarcophagus and its lid. Right: the Pan (1885) in its aedicula constructed ca. 1800 to replace the Niche.

In reviewing recent photographs of the statue taken in 2022, I have identified additional areas of damage that require attention. Specifically, the right hoof of the goat-like legs exhibits a broken section. Since it is also seen in Micheli’s photographs from 1986, the damage occurred before that date.

Left: present condition of the hoof (photo by T. Corey Brennan); Center and right: condition of this hoof in 1986 (photos by Maria Elisa Micheli)

Furthermore, another damaged area is present on the right hand—similar to a scratch—although the cause of this damage is difficult to figure out.

Detail of the Ludovisi Pan showing the damaged part of the right hand. Photo: T. Corey Brennan

The statue also exhibits numerous cracks throughout. Of particular concern is a growing crack located between the eyebrows, which compromises the distinctive wrinkle feature of the statue. This crack appears to be extending towards the top left. Another crack is visible on the left side of the elongated left ear.

Above and below: details of the Ludovisi Pan, showing growing cracks between the eyebrows (photos T. Corey Brennan).

Additionally, the phallus exhibits several growing cracks on the surface of the marble. Moreover, the animal pelt on the back displays two cracks, one of which is smaller than the other. It is imperative that these damaged areas should receive immediate attention to prevent further deterioration of the statue’s condition.

Detail of the Ludovisi Pan, showing several cracks on the marble surface of the phallus area (photo T. Corey Brennan)

In addition to the presence of cracks, the statue also bears numerous scratches that show the damage it has suffered over time. Notably visible are two parallel scratches on the back of the statue’s head. The origin of these scratches is difficult to determine, especially given the statue’s current elevated position. It seems reasonable to suppose they were incurred during the relocation ca. 1900 of the statue from its former location against the wall to its current position in the garden of the Casino dell’Aurora. Similarly, another set of parallel scratches, less severe, can be observed in a quite different part of sculpture, on the right side of the tree trunk.

Images showing parallel scratches on the back of head and the the right side of the tree trunk (photo T. Corey Brennan)

One crucial factor that affects Ludovisi Pan’s ability to express Michelangelo’s stylistic language is the disappearance of its distinctive details in the depiction of hair and beard. Specifically, the curled beard and hair of the Ludovisi Pan exhibits a remarkable resemblance to the depiction of the individual twisted curls of hair on the head of the satyr in Michelangelo’s Bacchus group. These curls are represented independently as a component of this stylistic hair.

However, a comparison between Micheli’s 1986 photos and our recent photos from 2022 highlights the loss of these details, particularly the depiction of a pronounced curly beard on the left side of the statue’s face (surely once found also on the other side as well). Here it is important to recognize an unfortunate fact: that without proper preservation measures, such as relocating the statue indoors, it will become progressively more difficult in the future to make any meaningful comparison between Ludovisi Pan and Michelangelo’s works.

Above left: detail of the satyr by Michelangelo (the Bacchus); above right: Ludovisi Pan in 1986 in photo by Maria Elisa Micheli (Palma I 6). Below left: detail of the Ludovisi Pan showing the curled beard and hair (1986 photo by Maria Elisa Micheli); below right: detail of the Ludovisi Pan (photo T. Corey Brennan)

Another important aspect is the presence of black residue located under the statue’s right arm and on its back. This reminds us of Giuseppe Felici’s observations (1952) regarding the heating system, presumably charcoal, inside the aedicula that we discussed in Part III. The statue underwent extensive cleaning during the spring of 2011. The area underneath the right arm, where the animal pelt is exposed, suggests that the Pan was previously uncleaned—and highlights the smooth and possibly polished condition of the marble in the cleaned areas of this particular section. Furthermore, another dark area is visible on the back of the statue, as well as on the left side of the animal pelt situated on the torso.

Details of the Ludovisi Pan, showing black residue under the right arm and on the back of the pelt. Photo: T. Corey Brennan

Upon thorough examination, it is apparent that the cleaning process of this Pan led to the exposure of various damaged, cracked, broken, and rusty portions of its body.

Display of the Pan in the garden of Casino dell’ Aurora in June 2010, showing the statue prior to its cleaning. Photo: T. Corey Brennan

One of the most important damaged parts is the rear portion of the right arm of the statue which appears almost detached from the back and may have undergone repair. These growing cracks on the back arm require immediate preservation. Moreover, several small holes are visible next to the animal pelt on the statue’s back.

Detail of the Ludovisi Pan showing the crack on the back of the right arm. Photo: T. Corey Brennan.

Additionally, the presence of rusty metal pieces on the upper body of the statue triggers my curiosity regarding the appearance of the pointer finger on the statue’s left hand. It shows some reddish residues, and the possibility of metal fragments inside the finger. The cause of this damage remains unknown, although we do have testimony on harm inflicted precisely on this party of the Ludovisi Pan.

Detail of the Ludovisi Pan showing the broken segment of beard. Photo: T. Corey Brennan

On 31 October 1864 a French publication from Nîmes, Le Courrier du Gard: Journal Politique, Administratif et Judiciaire, reported that a “stupid lord” damaged a finger of Michelangelo’s faun at the Villa Ludovisi. The article makes a highly critical assertion about high status English tourists in Europe, “from the desecrating diplomat who mutilated the Parthenon to the stupid lord who broke a finger of Michelangelo’s faun at the Villa Ludovisi, [who] can pay no other homage to masterpieces of work of art than to snatch from it a shred, a stone, some piece of cornice, of fresco, of mosaic to carry in triumph to their country.”

The index finger of the left hand of the Ludovisi Pan showing the rusty residue. Photo: T. Corey Brennan

Of general relevance here is the report by Johann Joachim Winckelmann (1717-1768) of his near-death experience in the Villa Ludovisi in spring 1756. “I climbed onto the base of a statue to see the work on the head more closely”, he wrote, “thinking that it was set in iron as usual. As I descended, it falls and breaks…I feared that one of the workers in the garden would notice the accident and report it to the custodian while I was looking at the gallery [i.e., of statues in the Palazzo Grande of the Villa]”, and so he bribed the man to keep silent “with a few ducats”. Winckelmann concludes, “I have never been in such a deadly state of agitation.”

It does seem that Winckelmann saw the Ludovisi Pan in 1756. In his careful (unpublished) notes on the Villa Ludovisi, he states “on the square in front of the Silenus, the navel of the Satyr is comparable to the navel of the Borghese Centaur. This Satyr is certainly a creation of more recent times and tastes of the school of Michelangelo.”

Comparative views of the navel of the Ludovisi Pan (left) with Borghese Centaur (center, 3D model by Matthew Brennan). At right, 1723 depiction of the Ludovisi Pan by Hamlet Winstanley

Yet the location he offers is puzzling. The Silenus was situated in the “Bosco delle Statue,” the piazza between the Palazzo Grande and the Labyrinth, along with the Leda group and Pan and Daphnis, as shown in Johann Wilhelm Baur‘s drawing (before 1640).

Johann Wilhelm Baur (before 1640), view of the piazza between the Palazzo Grande and the Labyrinth in the Villa Ludovisi, with Pan and Daphnis (on the left), Silenus with the sarcophagus (at the center), and Leda group (on the right).

While these two ancient statues were moved inside around 1805, the Silenus has remained outside until this day (it is on the grounds of the ex-Palazzo Piombino on Via Veneto that now houses the US Embassy in Rome). On the other hand, the Ludovisi Pan was positioned at the northern boundary of the Villa against the Aurelian wall since at least 1633, and can be shown to be there in 1737, as a drawing of Vernet illustrates, Guidebooks from 1744 (De Ficorini) and 1766 (Venuti) confirm this location, as I demonstrated in my Part III. It was moved to the garden of the Casino dell’Aurora in 1901.

Detail of Joseph Vernet sketch (1737) showing the Niche (Aedicula) with the sarcophagus and the lid and the Pan inside with the fig leaf, close by the Aurelian Walls that bounded the Villa Ludovisi to the north.

Based on this information, if Winckelmann in 1756 saw the Pan in the front of the Silenus, it was placed there temporarily, perhaps in response to crumbling of the Aurelian Wall—a problem that indeed caused the separation of the Pan from the wall in the years ca. 1779-1800. So it must remain quite uncertain which statue Winckelmann had broken in the garden of the Villa Ludovisi. The important point is that supervision in the garden portion of the Villa Ludovisi was so lax that visitors could have physical contact with the sculptures in a way that would have been impossible in the indoor galleries.

Of course the statue will have sustained damages in different ways. Regarding deterioration, acid rain could be one of the external factors contributing to the deformation of the marble surface of the Ludovisi Pan. The detrimental effects of acid rain on outdoor sculptures have long been recognized, particularly in Rome. It is reasonable to speculate that acid rain may have played a role in the loss of surface details. During my visit to the statue, I observed that despite not being an unfinished sculpture, almost the entire marble surface appeared extensively eroded except the layer of the animal pelt beneath the right arm which reveals the smooth surface of this marble sculpture. A prime example of this deformation can be seen in the broken beard, where the upper part retains (almost) its broken shape while the lower part, below the gap, appears rounded and worn.

Detail of the Ludovisi Pan in 2022 showing the broken beard segment (photo T. Corey Brennan). Right: detail of Ludovisi Pan in 1986 (photo by Maria Elise Micheli

Inscribed inventory number of Ludovisi Pan: note on the provenance

A close examination of the physical condition of the Ludovisi Pan reveals on its base a large carved inventory number. It was Theodor Schreiber in 1880 in his Die antiken Bildwerke der Villa Ludovisi in Rom who first noted its presence, registering it as an “Alte Inventarnummer”, and recording similarly carved numbers on more than two dozen other sculptures in the Ludovisi collection. These numbers prompted no further interpretation by Schreiber, nor have they interested later scholars who have treated Ludovisi sculptures.

As I presented in Part III, I want to stress the fact that only two scholarly publications simply focus on the statue of the Pan in particular, and neither mention this inscribed inventory number. The first is a two-page article by Maria Elisa Micheli (1986) which describes Pan, highlights the value of this sculpture in 1749 as 4000 scudi, and also mentions its representation by 18th-century artists. The second is a 2018 publication by Francesco Loffredo; here he follows a suggestion of Francesco Caglioti (1998/1999) who attributes this Pan to Michelangelo’s assistant Giovann’Angelo da Montorsoli (1507-1563), without real argument other than to highlight their relationship.

The inscribed inventory number of the Ludovisi Pan is ‘248’, carved on the front side of the statue’s marble base. It is important to state that of the 339 pieces that Schreiber catalogued in the Ludovisi sculpture collection, he found only 28 marble pieces that have such carved inventory numbers. As T. Corey Brennan has informed me, we have no record that the Ludovisi or Boncompagni Ludovisi ever used these numbers in their inventories of the Villa, of which 20 are known (see the roster of inventories at G. Felici, Villa Ludovisi in Roma [1952] 119), dating from 1622 to the 1870s.

The inscribed number ‘248’ on the right front of the base of the Ludovisi Pan. Photo: T. Corey Brennan.

It is reasonable to assume that these numbers were not assigned randomly. Also their similar style suggests that they were carved roughly at the same period of time. As it happens, most of the pieces with inscribed numbers are first attested in a 1633 Ludovisi inventory (without noting that number), and we will see evidence below that suggests they were likely assigned carved numbers before 1633.

Another point: all of the sculptures with these numbers in the 17th century were exhibited in the garden of the Villa Ludovisi, and none inside the Palazzo Grande or other buildings. Additionally, it is worth noting that all the pieces with carved numbers are ancient, except for the Ludovisi Pan. However, Pietro di Sebastiani (1683) is typical in considering this Pan as ancient, along with the other Roman-era statues, low reliefs, and sarcophagi in the Ludovisi garden. Hamlet Winstanley, who had drawn the statue in 1723, also considered the Ludovisi Pan to be ancient in his letter to James Stanley (10th Earl of Derby) dated 22 January 1724. As late as 1780, Canova expresses doubts about whether the Pan is ancient, but does not know for sure, as discussed in my Part III.

One final data point. Several of these sculptures with old inventory numbers are known to have come to the Ludovisi from the Cesi collection. These include a statue of the youthful Dionysus (old inventory number 288 = Schreiber 90); the statue of a seated Muse (Calliope?) (309 = Schreiber 61); Pan and Daphnis (314 = Schreiber 4); a female, seated robed figure, possibly a Muse (317= Schreiber 2); and a boy wrestling with a goose and a crouching Aphrodite incongruously joined to the same base (inscribed 312 = Schreiber 11 and 12, and as a group termed “Leda”). For the depiction of the Leda group, a drawing by Pompeo Batoni from the 1720s shows the group on the same rocky base. In the 1840s J. Riepenhausen depicts the two statues side by side but on different bases. The group formed by the two statues was eliminated by sawing the base when the statues reached the National Roman Museum, in 1901.

The “Leda” group. Left: depicted on the same base by P. Batoni (ca. 1727-1730). Right: Depicted on separate base by J. Riepenhausen (ca. 1840).

It is important to emphasize from the outset that the main objective of closely scrutinizing these inventory numbers is to see whether it allows one to trace the provenance of the Ludovisi Pan, by comparing it with the inventory numbers and provenance of other sculptures in the Ludovisi collection. The facts we have allow several possible hypotheses. These sculptures with crudely inscribed inventory numbers, including the Ludovisi Pan, may have come from the same pre-Ludovisi collection. Or perhaps these are movers’ numbers, carved to help with the organization of larger sculptures in the Villa Ludovisi garden; the early Villa accounts record many payments for the transport of sculptures (see Palma I 4 [1983] Documento 1). Or it is possible that these numbers reflect an early inventory scheme that the Ludovisi soon abandoned.

The range of these old inventory numbers starts from 203 and ends at 391. But interestingly, the first sculptures that Cardinal Ludovico Ludovisi is known to have acquired for his new Villa, on 5 July 1621, have the highest numbers: a group of Herms that show the numbers 386 (Schreiber 55 = youthful clothed male Herm [Hermes Enagonios?] through 391 (Schreiber 62 = Herm of Heracles with fruit horn).

The positioning of sculptures exhibiting carved numbers is also crucial. As noted, the Villa Ludovisi inventories indicate that in 1633 none of the statues carrying inscribed inventory numbers were placed indoors in the Palazzo Grande or the Casino dell’Aurora. These numbers were assigned only to sculptures located outdoors in the garden of the Villa Ludovisi. What is more, it appears that in 1633 some sculptures with contiguous numbers are grouped together.

These numbered sculptures were found originally in three locations on the Ludovisi property. The first area is a piazza that served as an entrance to the wooded area between the Palazzo Grande and the labyrinth. Interestingly, the two standing Dacians (old inventory numbers 262 and 264 = Schreiber 125 and 126)) and the colossal Juno (263 = Schreiber 211) are numbered sequentially (262-263-264); from the 1633 inventory, it appears they were originally displayed near each other outside the Palazzo Grande, with Juno positioned between the two Dacians. But by 1641, this colossal statue had been relocated far away against the Aurelian Wall, in a spot more than 400 meters to the northeast. The 1641 inventory confirms the location of Juno against the wall. Historical photos from 1885 confirm the location of both the Dacian captives (which remained unmoved) and the relocated Juno.

Above: at left, a pair of Dacian prisoners (from 112 CE) stands at the entrance of Casino dell’Aurora, moved ca. 1885 from their original position in a plaza in front of the ex-Casino Capponi of the Villa Ludovisi; at right, the inscribed number ‘262’ on the base of the left Dacian statue. Below: the colossal Juno statue (now in the Boston Museum of Fine Arts) as it stood in 1885, with inscribed base with number ‘263’. 1885 photo: Ignazio Boncompagni Ludovisi. Other photos: T. Corey Brennan.

The second area where numbered sculptures were found is the ‘Galleria del Bosco’, where only one statue is listed: the Ludovisi Pan (old inventory number 248 = Schreiber 210a), which is described as being situated between “two cypresses.” The 1633 and 1733 inventory confirm this position against the wall and between these trees; I discuss other testimonies for this location at length in my Part III.

The third area in the Villa Ludovisi property for pieces with an old inventory number is the Piazza of the Casino dell’Aurora. There another strong cluster of six herms (numbers 386, 387, 388, 389, 390, 391 = Schreiber 55, 8 , 3, 60, 1, and 62) by 1633 were placed together. Ludovisi accounts show (Palma I 4 [1983] Documento 1) that 180 scudi were paid for these six ancient herms as a group on 5 July 1621.

Moreover, a tight sequence of five pieces with old inventory numbers in the order 316, 314, 313, 312 and 311 was arranged together. This cluster includes especially prominent sculptures in the Ludovisi collection, originally positioned close to the Palazzo Grande and a Flora statue holding a garland of flowers (Schreiber 150) in the Bosco delle Statue (cf. the 1749 inventory transcribed in Palma I 4 [1983] Documento 16 entry 179). The five pieces are the Satiro Versante (old inventory number 316 = Schreiber 71), the Satyr teaching pipes or “Pan and Daphnis” (314 = Schreiber 4), the reclining Silenus (313 = Schreiber 137) who rests on a sarcophagus (Schreiber 136), and the “Leda” group (312 = Schreiber 11 and 12), which are two unrelated sculptures (a boy wrestling a goose = Schreiber 11, and a crouching Aphrodite = Schreiber 12) placed in the early modern era on the same base. Rounding out the cluster is a male statue wearing a chlamys (Hermes?) (311 = Schreiber 28).

It is crucial to note that Johann Wilhelm Baur represents three of these five pieces displayed together in an etching he executed before 1640, which in turn gives us a valuable terminus for the display history of the pieces we are examining. In Baur’s depiction, Pan and Daphnis (old inventory number 314) is depicted on the left, the Reclining Silenus (313) is depicted at the center on a giant sarcophagus, and the “Leda” group (312) is shown on the right, with two statues on the same base.

Two other drawings by Baur of statues demonstrably in the 17th century Ludovisi collection are relevant for our inquiry. When combined, they show figures with near-contiguous old inventory numbers that were grouped together. One of Baur’s drawings depicts two seated Muses. One, shown on the left, cannot be readily identified; but on the right we see a seated Muse that bears old inventory number 309 (= Schreiber 61), with Flora (Schreiber 150) on the far right. The second drawing again shows Flora, and nearby a statue of Hermes (311 = Schreiber 28). The publication of Baur’s second drawing introduces an unfortunate mistake: the location is stated to be the Villa Sora of the Boncompagni family at Sora. This is simply an error. In Baur’s two drawings, the bases of the statues are treated in the same manner, the hedges depicted are of equal size, and the presence of the Flora in both guarantees that the two drawings each render the Villa Ludovisi.

Above: etchings by Johann Wilhelm Baur of the Villa Ludovisi in Rome (before 1640), showing at left two seated Muses; and at right, Flora and Hermes (with erroneous caption). Below: at left, J. Riepenhausen ca. 1840 sketch of Calliope (Palma I 5 no, 36, today in MNR Palazzo Altemps); at center, Flora (Palma I 6 no. 24, today at US Embassy in Rome); at right, Mercury (Palma I 5 no. 61, today in MNR Palazzo Altemps).

T. Corey Brennan suggested to me as one possibility that the Ludovisi acquired these 28 sculptures with old inventory numbers as a group. If so, the Ludovisi initially seem to have retained some of the original compositions, such as the colossal Juno between two Dacians, the ensemble of Pan and Daphnis—Silenus—Leda, and the six herms in a semi-circle. In one case, they clearly changed their minds by 1641, and moved the colossal Juno a distance of some 400 meters. Eventually, Pan and Daphnis and the Leda group were moved indoors at the beginning of the 19th century, along with most of the sculptures with carved numbers. Fully 19 of the 28 sculptures were moved into a dedicated museum space in one of the Villa’s buildings (the ex-Casino Capponi), while the remaining life-size or larger-than-life statues remained outside. Those included the Dacians and the reclining Silenus displayed outside the Palazzo Grande, and the Ludovisi Pan and colossal Juno, which each stood against the Aurelian Wall.

Despite having the carved inventory number of the Ludovisi Pan, the question of the provenance of this statue remains quite open. Despite the many uncertainties, a close examination of the old inventory numbers leads me to conclude that the arrangement of sculptures with carved numbers may be a crucial factor in identifying their provenance.

Of particular value to my study is a 2013 article by Katherine M. Bentz that focuses on the Cesi Garden and its sculpture collection. Bentz describes how from 1622 to 1623 Cardinal Ludovico Ludovisi built his collection through acquisitions from the Cesarini, Altemps, Colonna, and Corpi in addition to the Cesi. Taking into account the entire collection of Cardinal Ludovico Ludovisi, 28 artworks are known to have been acquired from the Cesi collection, while the provenance of a further eight artworks from that source remains possible.

Already in 1917, Christian Hülsen provided not only a comprehensive description of the sculptures in the Cesi garden but also the inventory list of the sale to Cardinal Ludovico Ludovisi in 1622. This list comprises 36 lines, and records statues, busts with torsos, busts without torsos, a head, approximately fifty fragments of statues (including legs, arms, and feet), relief sculpture, and vases. This list shows the Cesi provenance of Pan and Daphnis (line 25) and the Leda group (line 26), and the statue of the youthful Dionysus (old inventory number 288 = Schreiber 90).

The inventory of the sale of antiquities from the Cesi collection in 1622 to Cardinal Ludovico Ludovisi. In C. Hülsen 1917.

And in 1974, Marjon van der Meulen was able to pinpoint the precise location of numerous ancient sculptures in the Cesi collection at the time when Cardinal Ludovico Ludovisi purchased them in 1622. The evidence is a spectacular painting by Hendrick van Cleef III of the Cesi garden as it stood in 1584. Meulen also discusses how the Cardinal bought the famed Hermaphrodite in 1622 from the Cesi collection, which he displayed indoors, in the Palazzo Grande.

Hendrix van Cleve III, Sculpture Garden of Cardinal Cesi, 1584. Credit: K. M. Bentz 2013.

However I must stress that though some of the ex-Cesi pieces that entered the Ludovisi collection have inscribed inventory numbers, most do not. In other words, we cannot assume that the old inventory numbers in the Ludovisi collection that we have been studying simply reflect Cesi provenance. One of several possibilities is that the inscribed inventory numbers on the sculptures indicate that they were part of an unidentified 16th-century collection that was absorbed by the Cesi and possibly other collections (such as Della Valle, Cesarini, Colonna, Orsini, or Cesi) before ending up in the Ludovisi collection through various routes. Or, as noted above, there may be more mundane explanations, such as that sculpture movers may have carved them for their own short-term purposes, or the Ludovisi started this mode of inventorying its sculptures but then abandoned it.

Finally, these crucial items presented by Hülsen, van der Meulen and Bentz, serving as documentary evidence, together indicate that the Ludovisi Pan did not originate from the Cesi Collection.

Conclusions

The primary objective of this research is to explore the basis for the attributions of the Ludovisi Pan to Michelangelo and to present visual and documentary evidence to support my findings. In Part I and Part II of this comprehensive research, I first made a stylistic comparison by highlighting the striking similarities between Michelangelo’s artistic style and the sculptural language of Ludovisi Pan. I supported my analysis with two evidence drawings by Michelangelo—the Dream (widely considered a self-portrait) and the Frankfurt Sheet—both of which demonstrate a remarkable stylistic similarity to the sculpture in the facial features. Additionally, I utilized visual sources such as representations of the sculpture by 18th-century artists and historical photos from 1885, 1986, and the 2000s to showcase the differences between the original state of the statue and its present state, revealing how the sculpture has lost many details due to its unprotected conditions.

It is important to note that we do not have any documentary and visual evidence to suggest that this statue has ever been displayed indoors since 1633. The 1633 and 1733 inventories describes this statue as standing in the Ludovisi gardens between two cypresses, and Vernet’s drawing (1737) confirms the position of this statue against the Aurelian Walls and between the two trees. Numerous guidebook descriptions as well as historical photos from 1885 show this statue at the same location.

As a result of the statue’s position outside for four centuries, here in my Part IV I have highlighted the parts of the statue damaged as a result of unknown external or environmental factors such as acid rain. After a close examination, I discovered that the statue lost many of the vivid details that were present in previous representations by 18th-century artists such as Winstanley, Batoni, Ciferri and Canova.

In addition, my study is the first to observe highly unusual metal pieces and holes on the upper body, specifically under the beard and on the upper lip. It is possible that these were inserted to provide support or to secure the beard or mustache. However, the function of the metal pieces on the lip and neckline and on the damaged area on the back of the right arm remain unknown. These interventions are likely to be some centuries old.

By showcasing the damaged parts of the statue, my aim is to encourage art historians to reconsider this 16th-century statue as an object that needs to be preserved. My research suggests a correspondence of its sculptural style with works by Michelangelo across several mediums, and has produced significant testimonies identifying it as a work by Michelangelo. Yet there is a risk that future scholars may miss this connection if the statue continues to deteriorate. Thus, it is crucial to take steps towards its proper preservation, to ensure that its value as a work of art and its quite possible connection to Michelangelo are not lost to future generations.

My focus on the physical condition of the statue also uncovered its essentially unnoticed inscribed inventory number, which is 248, located on the front of the base. This inventory number may be our best clue to trace the provenance of the statue. Although my study thus far has not provided a conclusive answer to the question of the statue’s provenance, it shows that it did not come from the Cesi Garden, as evidenced by the sale of inventories of the Cesi family to the Ludovisi from 1622. This result opens up the possibility of exploring the inventories of other Roman families whose works were acquired for the Villa Ludovisi—such as Orsini, Colonna, Altemps, and Cesarini—to determine where this statue on a mythological subject originated before becoming part of the Ludovisi Collection. By underscoring the significance of preserving this cultural heritage for future generations, in this final section I also emphasize the urgent need for its proper conservation and care.

The Ludovisi Pan in 1988 with Christopher Maczynski, then employed in restoration work at the Casino dell’Aurora. Credit: Christopher Maczynski.

Bibliography

Bentz, Katherine M. 2013.“The Afterlife of the Cesi Garden: Family Identity, Politics, and Memory in Early Modern Rome.” Journal of the Society of Architectural Historians 72.2: 134–65.

Hülsen, Christian. 1917. Römische Antikengärten des XVI. Jahrhunderts. Germany: C. Winter.

Justi, C. 1872. Winckelmann in Italien: mit Skizzen zur Kunst- und Gelehrtengeschichte des achtzehnten Jahrhunderts. Leipzig: Vogel.

Kansteiner, S., B. Kuhn-Forte and M. Kunze. 2003. Johann Joachim Winckelmann, Ville e Palazzi di Roma. Mainz am Rhein: Verlag Phillip von Zabern.

Lacombe, J. 1775. Dictionnaire historique et géographique portatif de l’Italie, vol. 1. Paris: Chez Lacombe.

Loffredo, F. 2018. “Pirro Ligorio and Sculpture, or, on the Reproducibility of Antiquity”. In Pirro Ligorio’s Worlds: Antiquarianism, Classical Erudition and the Visual Arts in the Late Renaissance, edd. F. Loffredo and G. Vagenheim. 324-359. Leiden: Brill.

Meulen, Marjon van der. 1974. “Cardinal Cesi’s Antique Sculpture Garden: Notes on a Painting by Hendrick van Cleef III.” The Burlington Magazine 116, no. 850: 14–24.

Palma, B. 1983. Museo Nazionale Romano. Le sculture I.4: I Marmi Ludovisi, storia della Collezione. Milan: De Luca Editore.

Palma, B. and L. de Lachenal. 1983. Museo Nazionale Romano. Le sculture I.5: I Marmi Ludovisi, nel Museo Nazionale Romano. Milan: De Luca Editore.

Palma, B. L. de Lachenal and M.E. Micheli. 1986. Museo Nazionale Romano. Le sculture. I Marmi Ludovisi dispersi. I.6. Milan: De Luca Editore.

Russell, F. 1987. “The Derby Collection (1721-1735).” The Volume of the Walpole Society 53: 143–80.

Hatice Köroğlu Çam graduated from Rutgers University in 2022 with a degree in Art History. Currently, she is pursuing her Ph.D. at Temple University. Over the last 15 months, Hatice has conducted extensive research on the Ludovisi Pan, under the guidance of Professor T. Corey Brennan of the Rutgers Classics Department. She expresses profound gratitude to Professor Brennan for introducing her to this unstudied work of art, and for providing her with guidebooks, documents, Italian translations, as well as offering her invaluable contributions, interpretations, guidance, and support throughout the research process. Hatice would also like to extend a special thanks to HSH Princess Rita Boncompagni Ludovisi for her encouragement and inspiration for this research and her dedication to preserving this statue. This study would not have been possible without her support.

The author with the Ludovisi Pan, Casino dell’Aurora, July 2022.

By Hatice Köroglu Çam (Rutgers ’22)

‘Pan’ attributed to Michelangelo at the Casino dell’Aurora. Collection †HSH Prince Nicolò and HSH Princess Rita Boncompagni Ludovisi, Rome. Photo: T. Corey Brennan (October 2022)

Introduction

In the garden of the Casino dell’Aurora in Rome, a superbly executed 16th-century statue with short horns, pointed ears, goat-like legs, an animal pelt, and an erect phallus explicitly displays how its sculptor was fascinated by classical mythology. This life-size Pan was exhibited in several different places in the area of the Villa Ludovisi since the 17th century, before landing in its present position against the southeast façade of the Casino. Starting in the late 18th century, for about 100 years the statue was commonly attributed to Michelangelo Buonarroti (1475-1564), though the identification seems largely forgotten today.

My first post “A new self-portrait of Michelangelo? The statue of Pan at the Casino dell’Aurora in Rome. Part I: Correspondences” defended the traditional attribution of the Ludovisi Pan to Michelangelo by presenting numerous correspondences between this Pan and the master’s well-known works of art, including the Moses, the David, and his drawing The Dream of Human Life; these provide ample evidence that this statue shows Michelangelo’s artistic style and language. Most significantly, the very close resemblance between the facial depiction of the Ludovisi Pan and the mask at the center of the box in Michelangelo’s Dream (ca. 1533)—widely considered to be a self-portrait of the master—reinforces the attribution to Michelangelo and indeed suggests that this statue is Michelangelo’s satirical self-portrait.

Left: ‘Pan’ attributed to Michelangelo at the Casino dell’ Aurora. Collection †HSH Prince Nicolò and HSH Princess Rita Boncompagni Ludovisi, Rome (photo by the author). Right: Detail of Michelangelo, Il Sogno (The Dream)

My second post, “Part II: Testimonia (sketches, earlier inventories)” examined a red-chalk drawing by Michelangelo from Frankfurt’s Städel Museum, which I argued conveys quite close similarities between the facial depiction of the Pan and that of a figure on the left side of the Frankfurt sheet. Part II showed also a remarkable connection between this Frankfurt drawing and an unusually significant representation of the Ludovisi Pan by Hamlet Winstanley (1723) at Corpus Christi College, Oxford.

Left: detail of Michelangelo, Grotesque Heads and Other Studies (recto) ca. 1525, Städel Museum, Frankfurt. Right: Hamlet Winstanley, Statue of Pan (1723), Corpus Christi College, Oxford. Credit: L. C. Bulman, Georgian Group Journal 12 (2002) 64

Here I also stressed that examining the statue of Pan through the mirror of the 18th-century drawings and sketches gives us a chance to compare this statue’s former and present states, which show its slow deterioration. I considered representations of the Ludovisi Pan in drawings by Bernardino Ciferri (ca. 1710-30), Pompeo Batoni (ca. 1727-1730), and Antonio Canova (1780), as well as historical photographs of the statue from 1885. In sum, I came to the conclusion that this statue is literally melting away in front of the world, as it stands outside in the garden of the Casino dell’Aurora, unprotected and in fa