Surfer Nate Halberson couldn’t help but stop and ask about the shiny medals hanging from the necks of three people standing near the boardwalk in Huntington Beach.

When he heard how the group working with the International Surf Lifesaving Association was given the President’s Volunteer Service Award from the White House, he was impressed.

“Even today, there was a really strong south current and it was pretty dangerous. Even for someone who is experienced like me, you can get swept away,” said Halberson of Lomita. “I take lifeguarding very seriously; I think we need them.”

Lifeguards here know what they are doing, but in other countries they definitely need the training, he said. “I’m really proud of you guys,” Halberson told the guards.

Five gold, silver and bronze medals came in the mail for the volunteers with ISLA – an organization based in Huntington Beach – two weeks ago, along with a congratulatory letter signed by President Barack Obama.

“It’s just such an honor. We all have careers outside of this, and this is just something we do in addition to that. It’s nice to get recognition – we’re really making an impact,” said Raquel Lizarraga, vice president of development, who earned a silver award for 400 hours of volunteering in a yearlong period. “It’s nice to see the president and the White House see drowning as an issue and give us the awards.”

Since the organization started in 2009, more than 200 volunteers – most from the United States – have jumped on board to travel to at-risk locations to teach waters safety skills, provide equipment and train lifeguards. The goal is simple: to reduce the number of drownings.

They’ve visited places like Nicaragua, Mexico, Chile and Peru. A project last week sent volunteers, including silver medal recipient and Huntington State Beach seasonal lifeguard William Koon, to Africa to teach lifesaving skills to lifeguards in Uganda.

Some of the lifeguards from the developing countries have little skill even when it comes to the basics of swimming. The training group works on lifesaving techniques such as how to pull someone from the water or how to brace a victim’s neck in the case of a spinal cord injury.

The group is run by volunteers who pay their own way on trips; there are about eight trips throughout the year. The group recently taught a course in the United States, with volunteers going to the Great Lakes.

“The Great Lakes have more coastline than the East and West coasts combined, and there’s more drownings than on both coasts,” said co-founder Olin Patterson, who received a gold medal for his efforts. “That means the world to us, to serve our own country.”

Patterson, a former seasonal Huntington Beach lifeguard, now does marketing for an outdoor retailer company, but still finds the time to go on a few trips each year to give back.

“It’s an incredible cultural experience,” he said.

It’s not the first time ISLA has interacted with the White House. About a year and a half ago, a few members were invited to Washington to speak with members of Congress about Global Drowning Tracker, software that Koon, co-founder Henry Reyes and others developed to help track drownings worldwide.

“They were really interested in what we’re doing and our program. It was an amazing experience,” said Reyes, who received a gold medal.

They caught the attention of the Princess of Monaco Foundation, and got to meet Princess Charlene when she was in Orange County in April. Her organization sends rescue boards to places ISLA teaches, along with additional equipment for their training.

So far, volunteers have made 220 rescues while in countries doing training.

“That’s not counting the lifeguards we’ve trained and how many people they’ve saved,” Reyes said.

Reyes said they always could use more people with lifeguarding experience to go on trips, but they also welcome assistance from people with other skills such as photography or fundraising backgrounds. Each year, they hold a 5K run to raise money to help with the trips.

Lizarraga, for example, has no lifeguarding background, but has skills in marketing from her day job at Cerritos City College. She came across the group while doing a school project, and has since dedicated hundreds of hours each year helping out the organization.

“It should matter to everybody when the drowning statistics are so high,” she said. “If there’s something I can do about it, I’m going to do something about it. If I can’t do it through lifeguarding, it will be through social media and raising the awareness.”

Reyes didn’t know they had been nominated for the awards until they were contacted by the White House with inquires about their service and time cards showing how many hours they put in.

He said the group celebrated when they received their medals by wearing them out to a local bar. People around them wanted to know what the medals were all about.

“It gave us another opportunity to talk about our organization,” he said.