At least some of Apple’s leadership team quietly sit on the boards of some of the world’s biggest corporations. Company CEO, Tim Cook, at Nike; VP Services, Eddy Cue at Ferrari – and CFO, Luca Maestri, has this morning been proposed to join the Nestle board.

Apple CFO joins the food industry

Nestle is a Swiss multinational food industry company.

Active in 186 countries, it owns over 2,000 brandsincluding both international and locally known names. Some of its brands generate over a billion a year in annual sales.

Along with its stated commitments to corporate social responsibility, It has also encountered its share of controversy. It’s a big company with big successes and big problems.

Paul Bulcke, Chairman of the Nestlé Board of Directors, said:

“… We are delighted to propose two new Board members. Luca Maestri has an outstanding track record in finance and strategic planning, which includes helping to build one of the world’s most valuable companies.”

The company is adding new people to its Board of Directors to replace outgoing members, Ann M. Veneman and Kasper Rorsted. Chris Leong, Chief Marketing Officer at Schneider Electric, is also being put forward for a role.The elections will take place at the company’s annual general meeting on April 7.

Who is Luca Maestri?

Luca Maestri is Apple’s Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, a position he has held since 2014.

He leads the company’s finance teams and has helped Apple deliver unparalleled innovation and value for shareholders.

Luca Maestri has three decades of experience building and leading finance teams in global companies with large operating scale and complexity. Prior to Apple, he was CFO at Xerox Corporation and at Nokia Siemens Networks.

He began his career at General Motors where he eventually became VP and CFO, GM Europe.

Nestle has long been a corporate customer to Apple and began actively testing or deploying iOS devices across its employees almost a decade ago, prior to Apple’s landmark deal with IBM. The company offers a host of food-related apps via Apple’s store.

Maestri and the Apple enterprise

Maestri has become quietly renowned for sharing some fascinating snippets of information to reflect Apple’s continued growth in enterprise IT. Customarily revealed as a footnote to his quarterly financial call, he’s continued to share the story of Apple’s extended presence in the space.

“We’re pleased with the rapid adoption of the Mac employee choice programme among the world’s leading businesses. We’re seeing improved productivity increase employee satisfaction and talent retention,” he said in 2021.

One year later, in 2022, he told us:

“With the latest MacBook Pros that we introduced last October, the new M1 powered Mac lineup has quickly become the preferred choice of Macs among enterprise customers. Shopify, for example, is upgrading its entire global workforce to M1 powered MacBook Pro and MacBook Air. By standardizing on M1 Macs, Shopify continues its commitment to providing the best tools to help its employees work productively and securely from anywhere. And Deloitte Consulting is expanding the deployment of the Mac employee choice program, including offering the new M1 MacBook Pro to empower their professionals to choose devices that work best for them in delivering consulting services.”

It is to be hoped that Apple’s CFO may now find himself able to share more insights into use of iOS, Mac and digital technology across the food and agricultural industry, from smart farms to intelligent connected supply and logistics systems.

Please follow me on Twitter, or join me in the AppleHolic’s bar & grill and Apple Discussions groups on MeWe.

Dear reader, this is just to let you know that as an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases.