Cornel West, the Dietrich Bonhoeffer Chair at the Union Theological Seminary, prolific author and public intellectual, will discuss the seminal ideas in his 1993 book, Race Matters, and reflect on how the insights and reflections outlined in the book might have shifted and evolved over the last 30 years. The book covered topics such as affirmative action, Black-Jewish relations, Black leadership, political views on race issues, and much more. In a conversational format, the discussion will cover these and other relevant topics.

Briana Toole, assistant professor of philosophy, will facilitate the conversation.

This program is co-sponsored by the Presidential Initiative on Anti-Racism and the Black Experience in America and the Gould Center for Humanistic Studies.

Cornel West is the Dietrich Bonhoeffer Chair at Union Theological Seminary. Dr. West teaches on the works of Dietrich Bonhoeffer, as well as courses in Philosophy of Religion, African American Critical Thought, and a wide range of subjects — including (but by no means limited to) the classics, philosophy, politics, cultural theory, literature, and music. He has a passion to communicate to a vast variety of publics in order to keep alive the legacy of Martin Luther King, Jr. – a legacy of telling the truth and bearing witness to love and justice.

West is the former Professor of the Practice of Public Philosophy at Harvard University and Professor Emeritus at Princeton University. West graduated Magna Cum Laude from Harvard in three years and obtained his M.A. and Ph.D. in Philosophy at Princeton.

He has written 20 books and has edited 13. He is best known for his classics, Race Matters and Democracy Matters, and for his memoir, Brother West: Living and Loving Out Loud. His most recent book, Black Prophetic Fire, offers an unflinching look at nineteenth and twentieth-century African American leaders and their visionary legacies.

This program is co-sponsored by the Presidential Initiative on Anti-Racism and the Black Experience in America and the Gould Center for Humanistic Studies.

View Video: YouTube with Cornel West