These photos capture the gnarled remains of a Nazi turret peppered in an Allied Forces attack during the Second World War.

Incredibly, there is still a shell lodged in its armour almost 80 years after Adolf Hitler used the coastal town of St Malo it to defend Nazi-occupied France from attack on the Atlantic coast.

During intense fighting between August and September 1944, the historic walled city was almost totally destroyed by American shelling as well as British naval gunfire.

The jagged holes and fist-sized dents which pockmark the turret act as a very real reminder of the US aerial and naval bombardment which finally forced the Nazis to surrender the coast that year 1944.

Such was the damage that it took 12 years - from 1948 to 1960 - to fully rebuild.

St Malo became vital to Germany's defence along the Atlantic coast after it successfully occupied France in June 1940.

Two years after Nazi soldiers marched through the Arc de Triomphe following the surrender of Paris, Hitler ordered the construction of defensive fortresses from Norway to the French coast.

The dictator wanted his Atlantic Wall' to consist of 15,000 bombproof concrete structures guarded by 300,000 soldiers within just 14 months, according to WWII expert and writer Kathryn Lang-Slattery.

Although much of his demands lay unfinished, by June 1944 Fortress St Malo was said to be one of the best defended installations along the Atlantic coast.

It was to be undone after the US army, led by General Patton, fought their way across Normandy to final reach St Malo in August 1944.

Brutal aerial and naval bombardment of the Nazi stronghold softened its defences enough for a ground assault until Colonel von Aulock, the commander of Fortress St Malo, finally surrendered on August 17.

Today the site, on a hill called Cité d'Ale, acts as a memorial of both the attack Nazi-occupied France.

'The tour of the bunker these days includes only a small portion of the original complex as much of it remains dangerous for visitors,' Lang-Slattery says on her website.

The tiny subterranean rooms underneath the turret are said to give an idea of how claustrophobic it must have been to live underground as a Nazi soldier.

Each room also contained artifacts including maps, furniture, assorted military equipment and personal effects.

The impact of glancing blows can still be seen with tunnel-like trenches ripped out of the turret's imposing exterior.

Now the macabre reminder of WW2's fierce fighting is being reclaimed by nature with grass slowly edging up the firing position and out of the concrete.

It is not known how many soldiers would have died in the shelling of St Malo, but the intensity of the attack would have made survival unlikely.

Amazingly the German position was not completely destroyed in the onslaught and remains standing 73 years after the savage siege of St Malo.

The emplacement sat over the harbour of the Brittany town which was almost completely flattened after D-Day.

Through a combination of aerial bombardment, American artillery and The Royal Naval the beautiful city was almost completely destroyed.

Approximately only 180 buildings remained of the 865 in the beautiful walled city after the German's surrendered.