Removals to Amersham

Are you looking to relocate to Amersham? Moving home is not something we do on a regular basis with there often being a few years between each move.

As such, we can often lose sight of the number of belongings we accumulate on the way and come time to relocate there is lots to organise.

This is where enlisting the services of a reliable removals company is crucial. White & Company are a family owned business with over 145 years’ servicing the Amersham community.

We offer a tailor made, reliable and professional service at a competitive price. Our trained crews have tackled all sorts of challenges and can wrap, pack and transport your personal belongings with minimum fuss and delay.

Should you require it, White & Company can offer storage of some or all of your effects also. We have 19 storage facilities across the UK, offering clean, modern, easily accessible storage provision.

We serve many towns around Amersham. To find out more about how we can get your dream move underway don’t hesitate to give us a call today for a free home survey and quotation.

About White & Company

White & Company has 19 branches located across the UK from the Channel Islands to Scotland and a network of industry partners. This extensive relocation network allows us to provide the perfect removal solutions no matter where you’re moving.

Through hard work, commitment and excellent service, we are now one of the industry’s largest removal companies. We have 250 specialist vehicles, full trained and security cleared removals staff and 19 storage locations across the UK.

Our Mission Statement

“To continue the traditions founded in 1871 by providing the quality expected by our clients; backed up by superb packing materials, highly trained crews, effective management and a genuine commitment to customer care and the environment.”

Rest assured you can trust White & Company to take care of your personal effects with care and respect from collection to delivery.

Why Move to Amersham?

The highly sought-after market town of Amersham is situated in Buckinghamshire, in the Chiltern Hills which sits only 27 miles from central London (33 minutes into Marylebone Station).

As part of the London commuter belt it is a highly desirable area. Other nearby towns include Aylesbury which is 15 miles away and High Wycombe almost 9 miles away.

Amersham consists of two distinct areas. The historic Old Amersham, lies in the valley of the River Misbourne and contains the 13th-century parish church of St. Mary’s as well as several old pubs and coaching inns.

Amersham-on-the-Hill, which emerged in the early 20th century around the Metropolitan Railway, no known as the Metropolitan line of the London Underground.

Being so close to the picturesque Chilterns an ‘Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty’, and surrounded by Greenbelt countryside, this vibrant town offers its residents a superb balance between commuter convenience and easy access to the surrounding countryside, including the Chess & Misbourne Valley.

The more modern Amersham-on-the-Hill is where you will find the main shopping area with high street brands such as Waitrose, Marks & Spencer’s and Boots all present, as well as a variety of restaurants and coffee shops.

The area is perfect for sports enthusiasts who can enjoy Amersham Pools and Gym as well as several golf courses, rugby, cricket and tennis clubs.

Meanwhile, the Chilterns area of outstanding natural beauty offers spectacular walking and cycling on the picturesque Chilterns Cycleway.

With good transport links and plenty to do in your spare time Amersham also offers an additional attraction, its excellent education provision, making the town a favourite with families.

Things to do in Amersham

The county of Buckinghamshire is a stunning location and home to many beautiful, traditional attractions.

The Chiltern Hills, often called the Chilterns, is a range of hills which form a chalk escarpment across Oxfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Hertfordshire and Bedfordshire. A large portion of the region was designated as an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty in 1965.

Many parts of the Chilterns have been covered with woodland for hundreds of years, and today the Chilterns are still one of the most wooded parts of England. People flock here to experience its rolling hills, distant views, chalk grassland, and acres of woodland. Ever changing through each season, it is a firm favourite with everyone.

Amersham Museum is a small local museum located on the High Street in Old Amersham. The museum is housed in a 15th-century half-timbered house and is itself is a stunning piece of history. It contains collections of fossils and archaeological finds, including items from Roman and mediaeval times. At just £2.50 to enter, it makes for a very interesting experience.

Nearby in Beaconsfield is Bekonscot, this is the oldest surviving model village in the world opened in 1929. Stuck in its 1930s-time warp, this 1½ acre site displays hundreds of buildings and thousands of plants, created in minute and meticulous detail.

Tiny figures go about their business in an entertaining variety of nostalgic scenes, set in little gardens and all linked by a model railway.

Chiltern Open Air Museum in Chalfont St Giles is 5 miles from Amersham. The museum rescues threatened buildings that are typical of the Chilterns and re-erects them on a 45-acre site of natural park, meadow and woodland.

There are more than 30 buildings on the site which includes a working 19th century farmyard and a village, traditional machinery is still in use, making the farm a particularly special place.

Amersham Property

As you would expect from such a highly sought-after and beautiful area, property is very expensive with the average cost of a home reaching almost £700,000, over double the national average.

Within one mile of the town there are currently 152 homes for sale. Prices for these properties start at £100,000 for a studio flat, £300,000 for a terraced home and £590,000 for a detached property.

Some of the town’s most expensive homes are situated on Windmill Hill, Rectory Hill and Devonshire Avenue, here you can expect to pay upward from £2,055,559 for a large detached luxury home.

All statistics as per Zoopla January 2020.