What is Anne Mccaffrey's Net Worth?

Anne Mccaffrey was an American writer who had a net worth of $20 million. Born Anne Inez McCaffrey (April 1, 1926 – November 21, 2011) in Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA, she was a popular science-fiction writer most appreciated for her Dragonriders of Pern science fiction series.

Of Irish origin, Mccaffrey majored in Slavonic Languages and Literatures as cum laude graduate from Radcliffe College. She wrote her first novel in Latin class, a writing that earned her the likes of her teacher and father. She soon turned from creating the characters on paper to playing them on stage, appearing in the first successful summer music circus in Lambertsville, NJ.

Next, Mccaffrey studied voice for nine years and in that period, became intensely interested in the stage direction of opera and operetta, ending that phase of her experience with the direction of the American premiere of Carl Orff's Ludus De Nato Infante Mirificus. She also added to her resume work at Liberty Music Shops and Helena Rubinstein (1947-1952), before establishing herself as a writer.

Meanwhile, she tied the knot with Alec Anthony in 1950, a marriage that resulted in three children.

Anne Mccaffrey's first novel, Restoree (1967), was written as a protest against the absurd and unrealistic portrayals of women in sci-fi novels in the 50s and early 60s. However, it was her first Pern story, Weyr Search (again 1967), that won her fame and critical recognition. The story earned her the 1968 Hugo Award for best novella, as it was voted by participants in the annual World Science Fiction Convention. The second story, Dragonrider (1968), brought her the 1969 Nebula Award for best novella, which is voted annually by the Science Fiction Writers of America.

Thus, she was the first woman to win a Hugo for fiction and the first to win a Nebula.

In 2005, Anne Mccaffrey was named 22nd Grand Master by the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America and was inducted by the Science Fiction Hall of Fame a year later. The world lost this great novelists on November 21, 2011.