In California there's a computer manufacturer that makes powerful machines beloved by a tiny niche of creative users, featuring a media-oriented Unix operating system and stunning industrial design. But it's not Apple Computer.

The company is Silicon Graphics Incorporated, or SGI, which once was famous for its high-powered graphics and 3-D workstations but has fallen on hard times of late.

SGI now focuses on supercomputers, but there's a tiny coterie of fans dedicated to keeping the company's aging but high-powered workstations alive.

Sites like Nekochan, Silicon Bunny and the SGI Zone offer hardware and software tips, news, discussion and secondhand trading facilities to the small clique of true believers. Nekochan's bulletin board has 700 members -- impressive for machines were never sold directly to the public.

There's a thriving trade in old SGI hardware. The market is so hot that Ian Mapleson quit his job in academia to sell workstations full time to hobbyist animators and videographers.

"The majority (of customers) are learning 3-D and video -- getting a foothold in an industry that's hard to get into," he explained.

Playing around with an old SGI Indy workstation, novices can learn Hollywood techniques at Peoria prices. An Indy, which in the early 1990s cost around $14,000, can be picked up on eBay these days for maybe $40, plus another $200 for a monitor.

But it's not just the lure of learning. In the small world of SGI, there's the real possibility of making actual Hollywood contacts.

"In the SGI hobbyist world it's not six degrees of separation, it's three, often less," Mapleson said. "I recently met one of the industrial light and magic guys who worked on Star Wars: Episode II."

Another used-SGI dealer, Ian Butler, sells a selection of machines through eBay auctions and his web store. Butler peddles mostly to videographers in poorer countries, who are making use of advanced hardware cast off by users in the United States and the United Kingdom.

"A lot of design, animation and video shops in Eastern Europe buy kit," he said. "They can get more out of older SGI machines than they would from PCs or Macs.... When it comes to video, a $2,000 Mac still doesn't have the same capabilities as an SGI machine."

The Indy is the quintessential SGI machine. First released in 1993, the Indy was an object of desire, with industrial design worthy of Apple. (In fact, it's arguably better than Apple's lackluster design of the time).

The distinctive bright-blue computer was intended as the answer to designers' prayers -- all-powerful, internet-oriented and with a wide selection of creative software running on Unix.

Like the iMac, the Indy was used for video editing, graphics and web design. The machine included support for video input, and SGI supplied a high-quality webcam suitable for video conferencing.

Networking was simple, and the machine came with a built-in adapter for then-popular ISDN communications.

The operating system was a friendly version of Unix -- one of the first to feature a graphical user interface rather than a command line.

All in all, the Indy was the iMac four years too early -- and $4,000 too expensive.

Not surprisingly, the SGI community is much like its Mac equivalent. But in its alienation, the concerns of SGI fans are far more urgent than those of Mac users. Is their beloved platform heading for obsolescence? Will their machines keep up with developments on the net? Can they get software for the machines? What will they do if the SGIs break down?

The editor of the Nekochan site, Pete Plank, draws direct parallels with the Mac web.

"The online Mac community is much larger due to the target audience of the platform, but as a community they are similar in many ways," he said. "Sites such as Accelerate Your Mac have always been an inspiration. I wanted something like that for SGI users."

Unlike Apple, SGI never intended its machines to be sold to the public. Instead, SGI machines were sold at the corporate level.

At one point, SGI attempted to force hobbyist websites into running a legal disclaimer that they were in no way connected with the company. Some closed down rather than agree to the lawyers' conditions.

Now, the company at best tolerates the hobby community, turning a blind eye to sales of secondhand software, which is forbidden by user agreements.

But the numbers are small. If the Mac community is dwarfed by the Microsoft horde, the number of SGI users amounts to a rounding error. Mac users may form a cult, but the SGI community is the tech equivalent of the pre-Reformation Moravian church -- unknown, tiny and years ahead of its time.

In spite of SGI's lack of interest and the difficult task of swimming outside the computing mainstream, fans of the platform say they will never give it up.

"All things come to an end but I don't see a reason to move away from SGI," said Plank.

See related slideshow