BOULDER, Colo., Feb. 21, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Spectralink Corporation ("Spectralink"), a global leader in wireless solutions for the workplace, has announced that its divestiture from Polycom was finalized in December 2012, making it an independent, privately-owned company. The company is also in the final stages of relocating its North American headquarters back to Boulder, Colo., where it was originally founded, bringing over 100 jobs back to the city.

Spectralink is recognized as a leading global provider of on-site enterprise mobile communication solutions. The company delivers these critical communications solutions to enterprises in sectors that employ non-deskbound employees, including healthcare, retail, warehousing and manufacturing. While the North American operations will be based in Boulder, Colo., the European operations will continue to be based in Horsens, Denmark. The company was founded in Boulder in 1990 and was acquired by Polycom in 2007. In December 2012, Polycom divested the division and as a result will now operate as an independent company and renew the Spectralink Corporation name.

"We are thrilled to have completed the divestiture from Polycom and now focus on reinventing Spectralink for today's markets. We have a strong heritage, reputation and partnerships that we will certainly leverage, but also a strong commitment to a new way of looking at our business, markets and the solutions we develop," commented Sten Dyrmose, CEO of Spectralink. "Our employees worldwide are united and determined to help our valued partners and customers deliver top-notch solutions, service and results to their customers. I couldn't be more proud and excited to lead this company."

About Spectralink

Spectralink, a global leader in wireless solutions, solves the everyday problems of mobile workers through technology, innovation and integration that enable them to do their jobs better. By constantly listening to how customers move through their workdays, Spectralink is able to develop reliable, enterprise-grade voice and data solutions and deliver them through a powerful, durable device. For more information, please visit www.spectralink.com or call 800-775-5330.

Media Contacts:

Michelle Chessler

Spectralink

720-872-7482 (o)

303-589-5226 (m)

[email protected]

Dianne Gleason

Enfuego Strategic Communications

303-381-2571 (o)

720-244-5546 (m)

[email protected]

SOURCE Spectralink Corporation