My biggest fear is one day making something like Welcome to L.A -- a film that was most likely started with the best of intentions (Robert Altman produced), but plays like an unintentional parody of "serious adult dramas." Writer/director Alan Rudolph does something incredible here: he takes a group of great actors (Spacek, Chaplin, Carradine, Keitel) and he straight-up embarrasses them. A film like this has to be every actor's worst nightmare.

The only reason this wasn't shut off and ran away from, is because we were having such a great time; I laughed more at this film's misjudged absurdity than any comedy in recent memory. Like seriously, this is a hoot. You haven't even heard about the best part:…

This felt like a billboard for a city that feels ungenuine which is not a unique statement considering what mainly happens there but I just found myself caring less and less on these characters self absorbed interests and grandeur of there self worth but I am sure that's the crux of this film. I just find it tiresome hanging out with these vapid lives and even how this was edited all disjointed and feeling ramshackled that failed to even make a scene work and always seemed like a disjointed power grab. I do have to say the cast is excellent but man do I loath Keith Carradine with his disgusting goatee and wow talk about some of the most obnoxious…

Man, whoever was tasked to write the Tubi synopsis must have HATED this movie:

A self-important group of weirdos from Los Angeles realize how worthless their lives are.

Burn! And to be fair, they're not far off the mark with their assessment. (Though I would argue several are not really interesting enough to be considered full-fledged weirdos.) It's a deliberately aimless, shambolic hang-out movie about strained long-term relationships, loneliness, and infidelity. It's also one of the more morose Christmas movies you're likely to find.

I guess I'm a weirdo, too, because I kind of like this brand of misery (except the interminable torch songs by Richard Baskin's character that break up the narrative, those were godawful). The assembled cast is…

Coming one year after Nashville, it'd be easy to label Welcome to L.A. as the Los Angeles Plays Itself answer to Robert Altman's ensemble film, however after seeing a number of Alan Rudolph films this is essentially just the type of movie he makes: an earnest journey with eccentric lonelyhearts and cheesy music choices.

Those music choices are earnest choices, as Rudolph really loved the LA jazz scene; problem there is, Rudolph didn't love the type of brass-and-drum jazz that Ryan Gosling tried to save in La La Land, but instead he really took to the Bruce Hornsby-like jazz vocal with pensive piano plinks. Buttoned up shirt and fedora shit. And it's always cheesy in his films but in Welcome…

so who told alan rudolph he was allowed to write a bunch of disjointed characters (who can all be accurately and wholly discribed by the word "quirky") and give them no plot to work with AND the most insufferable soundtrack in history. like am i missing something here, there was fr no storyline aside from the characters randomly bumping into eachother and sleeping with eachother/almost sleeping with eachother. i was not compelled

i had to skip most scenes with the richard baskin songs just to make it through the movie, it was harrowing. these songs are unspeakable

since there's very little substance to talk about i feel like i have the right to be vapid and talk about the cast…

Welcome to L.A. I had a somewhat different viewing this time: the film seemed more abstract to me; its origin story (that Rudolph told Baskin he could make a movie of his songs) seemed more obvious; and I noted the great number of insert shots that don’t fit any narrative sequence. There’s an interesting and hard observation that the characters sometimes make to each other - “You don’t need me” or “You’re fine - stop trying so hard” - a kind of meta-commentary on all the coupling and decoupling. It’s an alternative to no communication at all, which happens more often: the protag, Carroll Barber, isn’t always a nice fellow, and everyone’s mating process is pretty merciless - this is…

Nashville transplanted to the horizontal sprawl of Los Angeles, with the city always just out of view or seen in reflective surfaces not unlike the Paris of Playtime, yet there's no cynicism nor acidity here. Instead Rudolph has genuine affection for his characters, even if they might be even more pathetic that the figures who dot Altman's landscape. The camera always cuts to people listening, or holds on faces after a conversation hits a pause, watching all the games everyone plays crack in the face of the underlying longing and sense of confusion.

This is my second Rudolph film and I still can't pin down what it is about him that I find so wonderful. I don't see a clear…