The Illingworth Kerr Gallery (IKG) as part of ACAD invites you to attend a public art and social practice talk by internationally acclaimed artist Tania Bruguera at the Glenbow Theatre on Thursday, January 19, 2017 at 6 p.m. The event is free and the theatre has a limited capacity, so guests are asked to arrive early to secure a seat. This presentation is kindly supported by the Glenbow Museum.

Tania Bruguera is one of the best known contemporary artists of her generation. Born 1968 in Cuba, Bruguera has long operated at the intersection of art and life, exploring the role that the artist and art can play in today’s society and in the realm of politics.

For over 25 years Bruguera has created socially-engaged performances and installations that examine the nature of political power structures and their effect on the lives of society’s most vulnerable individuals and groups. Her research focuses on ways in which art can be applied to the everyday political life; on the transformation of social affect into political effectiveness. Her long-term projects are intensive interventions on the institutional structure of collective memory, education and politics. Her works often expose the social effects of political forces and present global issues of power, migration, censorship and repression through participatory works that turn “viewers” into “citizens.” By creating proposals and aesthetic models for others to use and adapt, she defines herself as an initiator rather than an author, and often collaborates with multiple institutions as well as many individuals so that the full realization of her artwork occurs when others adopt and perpetuate it. Awarded an Honoris Causa by The School of the Art Institute of Chicago, selected one of the 100 Leading Global Thinkers by Foreign Policy magazine, shortlisted for the #Index100 Freedom of Expression Award, a Herb Alpert Award winner, a Radcliffe and Yale World Fellow, and the first artist-in-residence in the New York City Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Affairs.

The public talk is part of the Public Art and Social Practice workshop series aimed at the professional development of local artists, and is jointly offered by the Illingworth Kerr Gallery and The City of Calgary Public Art Program.

The Critical Matter of Performance

In the spirit of current calls for a general strike against the current administration on February 17, we conceive of this event as a day of critical and necessary reflection and planning. We offer this as a generative platform for thinkers and artists who have been involved in or aligned with activism, and hope it is a crucial contribution to “no business as usual.”’

We will hold space in the New Museum’s lobby from 1:30–2:30 p.m., where museum visitors will be invited to take the mic and share their own responses to the call of a general strike.

The New Museum, in partnership with the NYU Center for the Humanities and the Sense of Performance Project at Yale University, presents the inaugural New Museum Colloquium from February 16 to 18, 2017. Entitled “The Critical Matter of Performance,” this three-day think tank will convene historians and theorists of performance, dance, and visual art, as well as choreographers, theater artists, visual artists, and performers to explore the relationship of criticism to live art through multiple registers—across time, space, bodies, politics, and institutions. Organized by Julia Bryan-Wilson, Tavia Nyong’o, Johanna Burton, and the New Museum’s Department of Education and Public Engagement, the colloquium will feature presentations and discussions with keynote presenters including Rizvana Bradley, Tania Bruguera, Malik Gaines, Jack Halberstam, Jenn Joy, Thomas J. Lax, Simone Leigh, and Wu Tsang, with special guest speaker Robert Longo.

The format of the colloquium brings together keynote presenters with a focus group of ten to fifteen emerging scholars and critically engaged performing artists (chosen through an application process administered by the organizers and in consultation with the presenters). Public sessions complement a number of closed-door discussions. The public sessions include a “long table” conversation with audience and participants, moderated by the organizers; a series of “duets” in which two presenters are asked to consider the same topic from their different professional or disciplinary perspectives and to respond to each other in dialogue with the audience; and an off-site reading with participants from the colloquium.

In a time of political extremes and unthinkable circumstances, it is more imperative than ever to question the relationship between bodies, actions, critical thought, and institutions. Throughout the colloquium, participants will consider criticism—in its various forms, formats, and temporalities—as a contingent material of performance culture. To both record and disseminate critical responses born from the colloquium, written reflections from keynote presenters and focus group participants will be collected as material for a related publication.

SCHEDULE OF PUBLIC SESSIONS

Thursday February 16

Screening & Long Table

7 PM: Screenings by Tania Bruguera, Malik Gaines, Simone Leigh, and Wu Tsang

7:45 PM: Long Table (led by Johanna Burton, Julia Bryan-Wilson, and Tavia Nyong’o)

Friday February 17

PART 1

11–11:30 AM: Arrival and Welcome

11:30 AM–1:30 PM: Duets, Part 1

“Haptics” with Rizvana Bradley and Simone Leigh

“Political Gestures” with Tania Bruguera and Jack Halberstam

1:30–2:30 PM: Break

PART 2

2:30–3 PM: “The Unthinkable,” a mid-program review and conversation (led by Johanna Burton, Julia Bryan-Wilson, and Tavia Nyong’o, with special guest speaker Robert Longo)

3-5 PM: Duets, Part 2

“Choreographies” with Jenn Joy and Wu Tsang

“Archives and History” with Malik Gaines and Thomas J. Lax

5–5:30 PM: Wrap-Up/ Discussion Session

Saturday February 18

7 PM: “Adult Contemporary”: Off-site readings by participants (La Mama La Galleria, 47 Great Jones St.)

About New Museum Colloquiums

New Museum Colloquiums are an outgrowth of the New Museum Seminars program that ran from 2013–2016 and provided a weekly platform for post-graduate level inquiry in a peer-led, seminar-style setting. The new think tank format seeks to produce a space that can support a similar level of inquiry in a more immersive and concentrated period of time, with public and private sessions operating in close dialogue.

Interrogations of Form: Culture in a Changing America

In Collaboration with The Aspen Institute Arts Program

Sunday, February 19, 1:00pm–8:00pm

Artists, activists, academics, and community leaders gather for a day-long series of conversations, performances, and open studios that explore the role of art, creativity, and imagination in addressing or challenging the social and political issues bound up in what it means to be an American today.

Visitors can attend the full Symposium or individual sessions, and are free to visit the Artist Salons throughout the day. Salon tours with the artists commence at the times indicated below. Session one sets the stage for discussion, focusing on culture’s impact on an ever-evolving society, and session two focuses on the future of a variety of art forms including music, film, spoken word, and comedy. The day concludes with a special session of Person Place Thing which features surprising viewpoints from an intergenerational perspective.

Participants and schedule subject to change. Availability is limited, but tickets may also be available at the door. Tickets can be purchased for individual sessions or for the entire day at a discounted rate.

Session 1

1:00pm–2:00pm: What Makes an American?: The Culture of Citizenship

Nisha Agarwal (Commissioner, Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Affairs), Tania Bruguera (artist, Armory Artist-in-Residence), Sarah Lewis (author, curator and Assistant Professor of History of Art and Architecture and African American Studies, Harvard University), and Jose Antonio Vargas (activist and journalist) join moderator Eric Liu (Founder, Citizen University) in a debate over the role of culture and the nature of citizenship in a changing America. Tom Finkelpearl, Commissioner, Department of Cultural Affairs, New York City, responds.

1:00pm–4:00pm: Artist Salons

Artist Salon featuring works by Carrie Mae Weems and guest artists; Nyame O. Brown, Jennifer Hsu, Kambui Olijuimi, and Lava Thomas

Salon tour with guest artists at 2:15pmArtist Salon featuring artworks by Elizabeth Colomba

Curated by Deborah Willis and Kalia Brooks

Salon tour with Deborah Willis and Kalia Brooks at 2:45pmArtist Salon featuring works on film by Paola Mendoza

2:00pm–2:45pm: Staying Visible: The Power of Storytelling

Introductory performance by Yosimar ReyesCristela Alonzo (creator, Cristela, ABC network), Christopher Myers (illustrator, author, and artist), and Erika Wurth (Apache/Chickasaw/Cherokee writer and Professor of Creative Writing, Western Illinois University) join moderator Elizabeth Hutchinson (Associate Professor of Feminist and Cultural Theory, Barnard College) in a discussion about the essential role of the arts in preserving forgotten stories, collective memories, and fragile histories.

3:00pm–3:45pm: The Movement in Movement

Jookin’ innovator Lil Buck and flex pioneer Reggie (Regg Roc) Gray discuss and showcase their dance styles and how they are working for social progress through movement. Hosted by former Principal Dancer of the New York City Ballet and Director of the Aspen Institute Arts Program, Vail Dance Festival, and DEMO at the Kennedy Center, Damian Woetzel.

Session 2

4:00pm–4:45pm: Sounding Off

Jason Moran (jazz pianist, composer, curator), Toshi Reagon (singer, musician, composer), Davóne Tines (opera singer), and Camille Zamora (co-founder, Sing for Hope) join Ric Leichtung (Webster Hall Talent Buyer and Adhoc founder) to discuss how music can lead, accompany, and inspire America now.

The session opens with a dedication of a Sing for Hope Piano, designed by French artist Lady JDay, for the Lenox Hill Neighborhood Women’s Shelter, located on the Armory’s fourth floor. Special performance by Jason Moran and Davóne Tines.

4:00pm–7:00pm: Artist Salons

Artist Salon featuring works by Carrie Mae Weems and guest artists; Nyame O. Brown, Jennifer Hsu, Kambui Olijuimi, and Lava Thomas

Salon tour with guest artists at 5:15pmArtist Salon featuring artworks by Elizabeth Colomba

Curated by Deborah Willis and Kalia Brooks

Salon tour with Deborah Willis and Kalia Brooks at 5:45pmArtist Salon featuring works on film by Paola Mendoza

5:00pm–5:45pm: Where in the World is America?

Award-winning filmmaker Mira Nair (Queen of Katwe, Amelia, The Namesake, Monsoon Wedding, Mississippi Masala) and Warrington Hudlin (President of the Black Filmmaker Foundation) discuss the future of American cinema and America’s current place in the world.

6:00pm–6:45pm: Open Mic with Yosimar Reyes, Negin Farsad, and special guests

Yosimar Reyes hosts an open-mic session featuring spoken-word poetry that challenges myths about identity in America. Reyes is joined at the mic by youth poets Karlyn Boens, Madeleine LeCesne, Ashley Gong, and N’kosi Nkululeko. Negin Farsad (comedian, actress, writer, and filmmaker) concludes the session with her pioneering brand of social justice comedy.

Session 3

7:00pm–8:00pm: Person Place Thing

Person Place Thing is an interview show based on the idea that people are particularly engaging when they speak not directly about themselves but about something they care about. Guests talk about one person, one place, and one thing that are important to them to reveal surprising stories from great talkers. Ta-Nehisi Coates (journalist and author) and Sonia Sanchez (scholar, poet, playwright, and activist) debate these topics with host Randy Cohen (formerly “The Ethicist”); members of The Ebony Hillbillies are musical guests.

Speak: Tania Bruguera, Douglas Gordon, Laure Prouvost and Cally Spooner

Speak, at the Serpentine Sackler Gallery, brings together four artists – Tania Bruguera, Douglas Gordon, Laure Prouvost, Cally Spooner – and coincides with the Serpentine Gallery’s survey of the late British conceptual artist John Latham.

The artists in Speak each extend and update Latham’s radical world view with their own sense of urgency. The Sackler has become a transformed space with an installation of video, light, sound and sculpture in the Powder Rooms, and, in the gallery, a bid for Cuban presidency and a composition of drawings, sound and a single live body. Each artist explores language as a medium for action, exchange and disruption. Together, they reveal how Latham’s ideas continue to resonate: from taking an unconventional approach to the reception and transference of knowledge to prioritising the role of the artist in society as an agent for change.

Tania Bruguera directly addresses political and humanitarian issues in her native Cuba through performance and long-term social engagement projects. Her interventions parallel the ambitions of the Artist Placement Group (APG), co-founded by John Latham, which positioned the artist inside industry with the potential to effect change. For this exhibition, Bruguera has made a video that builds on her recent announcement to run for presidency in Cuba.

Douglas Gordon was first introduced to John Latham in his years as a student at Glasgow School of Art (1984–8), and Latham remained an influential figure on Gordon’s work. He has responded to the architecture of the Serpentine Sackler Gallery by creating a new site-specific text installation incorporating Latham’s text works, drawing out their shared interest in the relationship between language and time, alongside a new video work which revisits and fragments a conversation between Gordon, Latham and the Serpentine’s Artistic Director Hans Ulrich Obrist from 1999. Gordon also presents two games: The Latham (Variations) redefining the Game of Freda and Ping Pong where objects collide in space and time.

Laure Prouvost takes an intuitive and bodily approach to knowledge, drawing on the everyday and domestic as events merging life and art, and exploiting the slippages of translation and language to confuse fact with fiction. Her experience working as John Latham’s assistant in the early 2000s has provided a rich and playful resource for her work. For this exhibition, she has created a multi-sensory immersive environment that combines synchronised lights and a sound narrative with sculptural objects and video.

Cally Spooner’s diverse practice includes film, audio, hired bodies, drawing, writing, and live events. She presents a constellation of sound, drawing, data and a live body. Her wall drawing wraps around the gallery, bringing together different streams of data – metabolic, professional and economic – extracted from the artist and her environment. Warm Up is a proposal for continuous restlessness and rehearsal – a warm-up for our position as individuals facing an uncertain political future. Warm Up appears daily, unannounced between 12-5pm. Carried by: Alice MacKenzie, Nefeli Skarmea, Alice Tatge, Rosalie Wahlfrid and Margarita Zafrilla Olayo. Spooner has written new texts Early Research Methods 9 – 10 for the exhibition catalogue, John Latham: A World View.

Speak takes its title from a 1962 film by John Latham, in which the artist experiments with pulsating sound and image. A series of screenings, performances, study evenings and symposia at venues across London has been programmed alongside the exhibitions Speak and A World View: John Latham.

Courage To Be College Seminar Dinner & Lecture Series, with Tania Bruguera

To resist is not enough. Filling the streets with bodies can look like a battleground that has created the feeling of an election. Use chants as if they were drums in order to spread the waves of commitment and slogans in order to highlight all the things that are wrong. But the streets are not enough. Be an active individual: it shows them you are not afraid. Learn the language of power, use the verbs they are scared of, publicly unveil their worst nightmare – act for them, not for us. Behave on a one-to-one scale with those you consider responsible. Laugh intelligently but never laugh before you begin. Laugh after your goal is achieved after your opposition is tricked, conflicted and incoherent because you took their power away with a simple human gesture. Don’t laugh about what they do, laugh about what you were able to do to them. What we know is not enough. Be persistent without tiring others. Use forms and actions that are legible for the resistance but new to the repressors. The time you have is the time they are using to figure out how to respond. Feeling good is not enough: create a political moment.

Tania Bruguera was born in 1968 in Havana, Cuba. Bruguera, a politically motivated performance artist, explores the relationship between art, activism, and social change in works that examine the social effects of political and economic power. By creating proposals and aesthetic models for others to use and adapt, she defines herself as an initiator rather than an author, and often collaborates with multiple institutions as well as many individuals so that the full realization of her artwork occurs when others adopt and perpetuate it. She expands the definition and range of performance art, sometimes performing solo but more often staging participatory events and interactions that build on her own observations, experiences, and interpretations of the politics of repression and control. Bruguera has explored both the promise and failings of the Cuban Revolution in performances that provoke viewers to consider the political realities masked by government propaganda and mass-media interpretation. Advancing the concept of arte útil (literally, useful art; art as a benefit and a tool), she proposes solutions to sociopolitical problems through the implementation of art, and has developed long-term projects that include a community center and a political party for immigrants, and a school for behavior art. (art21.org)

THE VISITOR TALKS – YOU TALKIN’ TO ME?

Dearest Visitor,

We are delighted you will be part of our Visitor Talks program ‘You talkin’ to me?’ As part of this semester’s talks, we would like you to think about discursive practice and the agency of the addressee, and to reflect upon whom we speak to when we are working, speaking or exhibiting. In accounting for essential inclusion of the other, the viewer, the public, these Visitor Talks extend the importance of speaking-as-doing-as-discursive practice crucial to We are the Center for Curatorial Studies – a multi-year exhibition and research program incorporating talks, artist projects, exhibitions, collaborations – as an evolving exhibition gathering its form through a deep consideration of the spaces of juxtaposition between subjects, things, images, words, structures, and/ or display.

We hope you will consider ‘the discursive’ as a starting point to think of different modes of address, speculative approaches, or propositional means to enunciate ourselves. Put simply, for whom do we exhibit? From where do we speak when we exhibit the curatorial? What does it actually mean to be a subject being addressed within a space? What does it mean to imply that it has a center or epicenter for such curatorial invocations? Equally, what does it mean to be outside, marginal or beyond such a center?

As well as coming to talk with us, we hope you will spend some time with us, and to make use of our resources: the museum, the archive, the library, the classroom, and the graduate program, with its faculty, staff and students. We want to study the form(s) and modes of address in your work, and what it is you think it is actively addressing in the world. We want to listen to what it is that is being exhibited when we speak of the curatorial, the discursive and when we speak through our practice, and to whom we are addressing when we speak or when we ‘speak ourselves’ in the world?

We are the Center for Curatorial Studies is a means to reflect upon curatorial studies and to extend a conception of the curatorial to account for multiple sites of contact, assemblages and gathering of diverse bodies and subjects as well as their discursive connections. In doing so, it opens up a concept of the formation of the ‘exhibition’ itself as a potential mode of research action in its own process of becoming.

We are looking forward to seeing you soon, and to hearing your thoughts.

Warmest wishes,

Paul O’Neill

Director of the Graduate Program

WORK AS INVENTION. ART FOR SOCIAL CHANGE

Text: Prof. Dr. Sotirios Bahtsetzis

The Artecitya Conference by Goethe-Institut Thessaloniki aims at creating a productive exchange between the fields of art, labour, politics and research-based knowledge, aiming at a trans-disciplinary approach. It shows the mutual dependence of work and art in envisioning the future of an upcoming society.

Our understanding of the concept of work is closely linked to industrial wage labor and employment. With paid work, we combine the meaning of life and the social legitimacy of individuals and collectives. This mental understanding becomes increasingly precarious, while corresponding with changes in the Welfare State and the globalised society. In the post-industrial society technological developments (internet and digital networking as well as mobility of labour) enabled various alternative forms of human labour to emerge, thus challenging conventional modes of work. New media researchers, digital craftsmen, socially engaged activists, permaculture makers, post-industrial designers, as well as innovative policy makers act towards inventing new forms of work as interaction with the social and natural environment.

In the meanwhile, many artists today are deeply committed to making work that addresses pressing social issues and changes in the way we perceive the world: social cohesion, post-democracy, environmental crisis and scarcity of resources, intersection of leisure and work etc.. The potential of art for social change can be deployed in order to rethink the concept of work and offer alternatives to a precarious living, characterised by permanent unemployment, indebtedness and deprivation of civil rights, as well as the damaging lack of creative and resilient solutions for society.

Artists explore new forms of “social practice” that become involved in addressing communities and conventional institutions. These experiments engage both with the notion of creativity (e.g. low and high culture), as well as with a redefinition of work (e.g. DIY, Makershops, Fablabs, alternative economies). Moving beyond the function of commenting and responding to society by means of creating visual, auditory or performing artefacts, socially engaged art can ignite demands for change, and provide a platform for reflection, collaboration and laboratories for building socially resilient practices of work.Our aim is to provide equal space to both scholarly and artistic contributions, as well as presentations of best practice models in society, in order to explore these highly relevant social, economic and aesthetic developments. Focusing on three specific areas -that is art, community and politics- various scientists, scholars, educators, artists, civil society activists, as well as stake holders in politics and economy are invited to deeply explore this state of things and offer proposals for building alternative models of work and art. Possible perspectives for contributions could be: new technologies, urban creativity, transformation design, art activism, civic participation, commons, alternative economies, social cohesion, best practice in social entrepreneurship, resilient and post-growth society, global governance and post-humanism. The list of contributors includes scholars, policy makers, and individuals who have already promoted significant and successful innovations in the sectors mentioned above.

A specific trait of the Conference is its format, which will be directed as a creative laboratory paying particular attention to audience interaction.

The event will be held at Goethe-Institut Thessaloniki and at the Museum der Kulturen in Basel. Following the format of a “staged performance” the meeting departs from the conventional conference, in order to enhance participation and activation of the public, as well as an inclusive exchange of ideas. Contributors are invited to participate either with a video statement or with a a short lecture which will comment and further expand issues and themes presented in the video statements.

The 2-days conference will be live-streamed on the official site of Artecitya and various social media platforms. Art and educational institutions around the world, such as the KUNSTrePUBLIK in Berlin will host the live-streaming of the conference. Public attending theconference live as well as public worldwide attending via live-streaming can submit questions to the contributors. Moderators will present a selection of the submitted questions to the contributors and ask them to comment. The stage design will be created by the artists collective Practise(in)Cognition, who have emerged as a result of artist Eric Ellingsen’s residency last Summer. The language of the conference will be English with a simultaneous translation into Greek for the public attending the conference.

In Acts

Opening April 7, Weinberg/Newton Gallery presents In Acts, a group exhibition inspired by the summit that will bring international artists to the University of Chicago’s campus later that month to ask: Whatis an Artistic Practice of Human Rights? Featuring Lola Arias, Jelili Atiku, Tania Bruguera, Zanele Muholi, Carlos Javier Ortiz, and Laurie Jo Reynolds, In Acts provides a setting for artworks by these artists who advance human rights discourse and policy through their art.

These artists are performative, searching, and ambitious, yet incisive in emotional acuity. Their practices are at once endeavors in political engagement and sensitive creative explorations. In Acts makes apparent the intricate systems that undergird the discrimination and inequality in global culture. The exhibition strives to amplify a sense of political efficacy amongst its visitors, willing them to take action in matters of human rights–from immigrant and refugee justice to LGBTQ rights to the eradication of poverty and youth violence.

Two artists use fresh approaches to the tradition of documentary photography and filmmaking in order to shed light on underrepresented communities, in which they have personal stakes. Zanele Muholi makes images of members of her own community– queer and trans South Africans. Her portraits on display from the series Faces and Phases vibrate with the energy of their subjects. Muholi regards her practice as visual activism, a stand against the frequently violent homophobia that pervades contemporary South African culture. Carlos Javier Ortiz makes documentary films and photographs that capture the effects of violence on American families in cities like Chicago. Ortiz often depicts Puerto Rican and black families that have experienced the loss of kin to violence in order to provide viewers with insight into the nuances of such violence, the factors that produce it, and the resilience of people who live through it. His short film A Thousand Midnights illustrates socioeconomic realities for African-Americans living through the Great Migration and in its wake.

Two more use their own bodies and personae in high stakes live performances to elicit reactions and mobilize their audiences. Jelili Atiku addresses pressing human rights struggles while incorporating elements of traditional Nigerian performance into his works. Atiku’s emphatic, boldly embodied performances often traverse public space, dragging issues of poverty, corruption, climate change, and prejudice out into the open air. In preparation for his Chicago performance, which will begin in Hyde Park at the summit and end at Weinberg/Newton Gallery, Atiku will collect written responses to questions about LGBTQ rights. During the performance, he will wear a cloak made from hundreds of glass bottles that contain the collected responses. The material aftermath from his performance on April 29 will be added to Atiku’s gallery installation. Tania Bruguera’s performances situate themselves in the space where art and activism overlap. Although she performs in her work, her projects are often not truly realized until other people respond, participate, and interact – utilizing the very model of participatory democracy as artistic practice. In doing so, Bruguera proposes solutions to political problems through art.

The remaining artists reframe existing structures of power in order to remake them for the future. Laurie Jo Reynolds confronts tools of discrimination within the US criminal justice system, like solitary confinement in prisons and public crime registries. Ephemera that conveys her current efforts to disrupt the 20-year long systematic registry of sex offenders will be on display. Reynolds refers to her practice as legislative art and regularly engages institutions and people outside of the art world to yield tangible effects. Lola Arias retells prevailing realities from the past and the present. She imaginatively reconstitutes localized histories through her theatre-based projects. Veterans is a five-channel video installation examining the long- lasting effects of military action on Argentinean men who served in the Malvinas/Falklands War in 1982. Arias collaborates with non-professional performers in the creation of her work, asking them to combine their lived experiences with aestheticized embellishments to shed light on the political inheritances that shape our time.

Weinberg/Newton Gallery has partnered with the University of Chicago’s Gray Center for Arts and Inquiry, Logan Center for the Arts, and Pozen Family Center for Human Rights to bring the work of these artists into dialogue with one another for this exhibition. The summit What is an Artistic Practice of Human Rights? will take place on April 29 and May 1.

ABOUT WEINBERG/NEWTON GALLERY

Weinberg/Newton Gallery is an exhibition space with a mission to educate and inform the public on social justice issues. Through artwork and programming, the gallery provides an engaging environment for discourse on critical contemporary issues facing our communities. Connecting artists with social justice organizations, the gallery works to drive change and cultivate a culture of consciousness.

Displacement/Destierro

In this performance, Tania Bruguera walks through city streets in a garment made of earth, cloth, wood, and nails—the embodiment of a living nkisi nkonde, or Congolese power figure. Originally performed in 1998 in Havana on Fidel Castro’s birthday, Bruguera conceives of this work as “an allegorical way to approach political reality and the social promises that have been made and never kept.”

The performance is organized as part of the public program for Person of the Crowd: The Contemporary Art of Flânerie.

Person of the Crowd: The Contemporary Art of Flânerie features work by more than 50 international artists who have taken to the street to play detective, make fantastic maps, scavenge and shop for new materials, launch guerrilla campaigns, and make provocative spectacles of themselves to speak to issues as diverse as commodity fetishism, gentrification, gender politics, globalization, racism, and homelessness. The exhibition is on view February 25 through May 22, 2017, and features works, new performances, and historical pieces by Marina Abramovi&cacute;, Vito Acconci, Eleanor Antin, Constant, David Hammons, and Zhang Huan, among many others.

While much of the exhibition will be presented in the Barnes Foundation’s Roberts Gallery, Person of the Crowd will also reach into the city of Philadelphia. A series of performances—by artists including Sanford Biggers, Tania Bruguera, Ayana Evans, Zachary Fabri, and Wilmer Wilson IV—will take place on the streets of Philadelphia, and billboard and street poster projects will activate the city throughout the exhibition run.

The Barnes has also commissioned New York-based artist Man Bartlett to create a project site and digital artwork exploring themes related to the exhibition and the concept of “cyberflânerie.” Bartlett will act as a flâneur by documenting the street performances taking place throughout the run of the exhibition and inviting the general public to step into the position of the flâneur and share their perceptions of everyday urban life via social media using the hashtag #personofthecrowd. He will also work with teens in the Philadelphia region to develop videos documenting their own experiences as flâneurs inspired by their engagement in the public spaces of the city.

Bartlett will weave together this rich digital content—his documentation of the performances, the public’s social media posts as interpreted by a custom-built machine learning application, and Philadelphia students’ videos—to create the final piece which will live on a project site and will be projected inside the Barnes Foundation’s Annenberg Court.

Future Climates – The School of Redistribution

Future Climates is a platform initiated by Antonia Alampi and iLiana Fokianaki that aims to propose viable futures for independent cultural practice. Its objective is to actively shape the forecast of institutional climates by addressing the precarious conditions of individual workers and small-scale organizations of contemporary art. At its core lies the urgency to imagine and implement new sustainable economies in response to the changing weather that affects labour rights, work ethics and funding methods.

In March 2017, Future Climates will launch in Athens with “The School of Redistribution”, a three-month long exhibition, research and public program, and a newly commissioned performance: all dressed as a school. Conceived as a dialogue across contexts, methodologies and practices it wants to investigate the economic conditions that determine and define the work of small-scale organizations of contemporary art and culture in Athens. It will revolve around a central question: how to transform the increasingly precarious existence of small-scale organizations and independent art workers into a more sustainable one, both in terms of economy and work ethics?

The space of State of Concept will be designed by the Studio Miessen and is titled “ΧÎ¬ιτερμπιςΒÏŒλκικ – Heiter bis Wolkig” (sunny with cloudy intervals). As a commentary on the current, post-2008 conflictual relationships across Europe, which – at least partially– relate to linguistic misunderstandings cum spatial separation, Miessen’s intervention consists of a space of conversation based on the typology of a bar, which positions itself within a longstanding tradition of artist-run bars. Precarious times of uncertain futures require different forms of discursive spaces. Instead of formalized institutional conditions, the project claims normative, popular spaces of conversation as a form of practice. Within this, Navine Khan Dossos will realize “Navigating the Numbers” a new wall painting inspired by flow charts of information without content, emphasizing exclusively their infrastructure. The juxtaposition of environmental predictions of climate change, funding applications and cultural hierarchies come together in a complex diagram, a futuristic model of data and movement.

Alexandra Pirici will present a new ongoing action commissioned by Future Climates together with KADIST. “Parthenon Marbles” is a work that tells a story that evolves around the controversial request of repatriation of those marbles to the Acropolis Museum in Athens, as a metaphor and an entry point into a larger discussion about capital, accumulation, circulation, redistribution and the role of the arts within today’s economies. It proposes a performative repatriation, an immaterial version of the sculptural ensemble. This action includes a performed research into the financial and legal implications of the sculptures’ situation: a speculative journey into a “what if” scenario of return developed in collaboration with writer and curator Victoria Ivanova.

Films of Martha Rosler addressing the stressed relationships between institutions, cultural workers and their audience, such as the seminal “Museums will eat your Lunch” will co-exist with sculptural interventions of Alexandros Tzannis, remnants of the previous exhibition hosted at State of Concept, named by the artist as “Athenian parasites”.

Several screenings will take place throughout the three months (please refer to website for further information) amongst them the “Moving Pictures: Artists’ Films from the Film London Jarman Award”, and Nicoline Van Harskamp’s Englishes.

The research program, commencing on March 27, will include fieldwork, visits to Athens-based organizations, workshops and lectures by international and Greek independent and institutionally affiliated art workers, public programs, and writing. Its aim is to draw on the collective knowledge and experience of its participants to not only address but also speculatively propose alternatives for future scenarios of practice. Participants to the program, selected via an international open call, Denise Araouzou, Jane Fawcett, Ioli Kavakou, Laura Lovatel, Federica Menin, Giulia Palomba, Sol Prado, Rosana Sánchez Rufete and Aris Spentsas, Sara Santana, Dora Vasilakou and Maya Tounta as repondent.

Contributors to the program include Victoria Ivanova, Maria Lind, Prosorini Akadimia Tehnon Athens, Emily Pethick, Martha Rosler, Bik Van der Pol, Nora Sternfeld, Olav Velthuis, 3 137 (Kosmas Nikolaou, Paky Vlasopoulou, Chrysanthi Koumianaki), Enterprise Projects (Vassilis Papageorgiou, Danai Giannoglou), Katerina Nikou, Polyna Kosmadaki, Kostis Stafylakis, Jens Maier-Rothe, Jonas Staal, Angela Dimitrakakis, Theo Prodromidis, Mohammed Salemy, Libia Castro and Olafur Olafsson, Stella Baraklianou and DIY Performance Biennial (Athens), Tania Bruguera among others.

Head of research: Evita Tsokanta

Co-ordination: Maria-Adela Konomi

Design: Rana Karan

NYC MAYOR’S OFFICE OF IMMIGRANT AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS’ PUBLIC ARTIST IN RESIDENCE TANIA BRUGUERA LAUNCHES “CYCLENEWS”

On bicycle routes in and around Corona, Queens, CycleNews will bring information on essential government services to immigrant-rich communities and communicate community needs back to local government CycleNews aims to build trust between immigrant communities and local government.

CycleNews is a project by Immigrant Movement International initiated by Tania Bruguera in collaboration with Mujeres en Movimiento and Kollektiv Migrantas

NEW YORK—Today, NYC Cultural Affairs Commissioner Tom Finkelpearl and Immigrant Affairs Commissioner Nisha Agarwal joined artist Tania Bruguera and the Mujeres en Movimiento to launch “CycleNews,” a new collaborative art project that seeks to build bridges between New York City government and its immigrant residents by demonstrating that we respect and protect all of our communities. The announcement was made at a rally for Immigrant Respect on the steps of City Hall. Pictures of the project in action are available here.

“Art has the power to heal, to transform, and to bring us together. This groundbreaking collaboration between the Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Affairs, our Public Artist in Residence Tania Bruguera, and the Mujeres en Movimiento is an extraordinary example of this,” said Cultural Affairs Commissioner Tom Finkelpearl. “Two of my great passions in life are bicycles and social activist art, so I’m thrilled for the launch of CycleNews. Local government is responsible to local residents, and it’s our obligation to work with them and listen closely to their needs – something that this project powerfully expresses.”

“At a time when immigrant communities are under attack, it is more critical than ever to keep the channels of communication open and reinforce that the City of New York still has your back,” said Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Affairs Commissioner Nisha Agarwal. “The work of Mujeres en Movimiento to empower their neighbors and networks through information is precisely the type of inspiring community action that the City wants to uplift and support at this important moment for so many of our residents.”

CycleNews is a project by Immigrant Movement International initiated by Tania Bruguera, in collaboration with Mujeres en Movimiento and Kollektiv Migrantas. Tania Bruguera is the Public Artist in Residence (PAIR) with the NYC Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Affairs and Department of Cultural Affairs. The project seeks, among other things, to build trust between government agencies and new and undocumented immigrants, and to connect immigrant populations to critical services MOIA provides: IDNYC, ActionNYC legal services, English conversation classes, and know your rights materials.

“After spending time getting to know the Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Affairs, I wanted to build on MOIA’s community outreach strategies and initiatives, furthering their relationship with the communities they serve,” said Public Artist in Residence Tania Bruguera. “The idea for CycleNews is to create a two way street where immigrant communities are able to trust the government and, equally important, the government demonstrates that it trusts the immigrant communities of New York City.”

CycleNews will begin with a pilot program in Corona, Queens working in collaboration with approximately 15 women from Mujeres en Movimiento, a local group of Spanish-speaking mothers and neighborhood advocates. The Mujeres formed from Bruguera’s Immigrant Movement International, an art project/think tank/community center initiated in 2011 in Corona with Creative Time and the Queens Museum. Coming together through self-organized fitness classes in Immigrant Movement International, the Mujeres have since become neighborhood leaders, using tactics from art and community organizing to advocate for community improvements, including adding bike lanes along Roosevelt Avenue.

“We feel very proud to be part of CycleNews because this project makes us more aware of our rights, reinforces our community power, and unites us as immigrants with renewed freedom and pride in our roots,” said Mujeres en Movimiento. CycleNews helps us to be better citizens who live and work around the clock in and for our New York City.”

“Nos sentimos muy orgullosas de ser parte de Cyclenews porque este proyecto nos hace ser más conscientes de nuestros derechos, refuerza nuestro poder comunitario, a la vez que nos une como inmigrantes y nos empodera con respeto, libertad y orgullo de nuestras raices,” dijeron Mujeres en Movimiento.“Este proyecto nos ayuda a ser mejores ciudadanas, viviendo y trabajando de sol a sol en esta nuestra ciudad de Nueva York.”

The Mujeres have been working with Bruguera and training with MOIA to develop strategies to educate and engage immigrant residents about their rights and the services available to them. One of the initial steps of this collaboration was to revisit the way that services are communicated. By working with Kollektiv Migrantas, a Berlin-based artist collective specializing in migrant rights, Bruguera, the Mujeres, MOIA, and DCLA came together to co- create picture-based materials that outline critical MOIA services while centering on immigrant experiences. The materials were created through a series of participatory storytelling workshops facilitated by Kollektiv Migrantas with the Mujeres and MOIA, separately. Kollektiv Migrantas combined these images and stories into the graphic materials ultimately produced.

The Mujeres will deliver this specially crafted information on CycleNews bicycles, as bike messengers, and in accompanying uniforms; serve as a direct point of contact between immigrant communities and government institutions; and bring first-hand feedback, ideas, hopes, and fears from immigrant communities to City officials and policymakers. CycleNews aims to strengthen direct lines of communication between policymakers and those most affected by immigration policies.

At the press conference, attendees heard from Queens Poet Joyce Sanchez of Poem Songs – Salmos de Fronteras, of Ecuadorian heritage, who performed an original poem titled Mujeres in English, Spanish, and Quechua; a singer from the New Day United Methodist Worship Team in the Bronx, Rae Wesley, who sang about immigrant rights and family; and Mobile Print Power, a multi-generational artist collective based out of Immigrant Movement International in Corona, Queens. Mobile Print Power uses silkscreen printmaking and participatory design in public space to engage communities and explore social and cultural situations.

“I’m proud of the City of New York for taking a strong stand in solidarity with our neighbors in immigrant communities working just like us to realize a better life for themselves and their families,” said Majority Leader Jimmy Van Bramer. “As the Chair of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, I firmly believe that art has a unique power to connect us to each other and helps to break down barriers so that all can find a sense of place and community where they live. I’m thrilled that this new collaboration between world renowned artist-in-residence Tania Bruguera, Mujeres en Movimiento, and the City of New York, will connect immigrant communities with the resources they need to feel fully protected, respected, and empowered.”

“Our City is finding new and creative ways to build trust between government and immigrant communities,” said Council Member Carlos Menchaca, Chair of the Immigration Committee. “When agencies and artists collaborate they close the divides that separate residents from City activities and services. I look forward to the work of Public Artist in Residence, Tania Bruguera, and Mujeres en Movimimento as the Cycle News project shows how art can promote mutual respect among New Yorkers.”

Bruguera was the first Public Artist in Residence announced as the program was expanded under Mayor Bill de Blasio. Other PAIRs include artist Mary Miss with the Department of Design and Construction; Bryan Doerries with the Department of Veterans Services; and The Lost Collective with the Administration for Children’s Services. More information is available on DCLA’s website.

About NYC Public Artists in Residence (PAIR) Program

Launched by the Department of Cultural Affairs in 2015, New York City’s PAIR – Public Artists in Residence – is a municipal artist residency program that embeds artists in city government to propose and implement creative solutions to pressing civic challenges. PAIR artists create lasting impact by working collaboratively and in open-ended processes to build community bonds, open channels for dialogue, and create new possibilities for those who experience and participate in the work.

About Tania Bruguera + Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Affairs (MOIA)

Bruguera asks the questions: how can immigrant communities trust the government and how, in turn, will the government demonstrate that it trusts immigrant communities? Bruguera began her research phase at MOIA in the fall of 2016. CycleNews marks her first major project with MOIA.

Tania Bruguera: Talking to Power / Hablándole al Poder

Talking to Power / Hablándole al Poder is a survey exhibition that presents all of Bruguera’s long-term, socially engaged art projects to date. As part of the exhibition, the artist will also open a school in YBCA’s galleries. The Escuela de Arte Útil will convene weekly classes, taught by Bruguera and other prominent artist-educators, on topics such as systems of power and creative dissent. A cohort of YBCA Fellows will serve as the primary pupils, but members of the public are welcome to attend classes on a drop-in basis.

Bruguera works at the intersection of activism and performance art to address structures of power, devise new utopian models of authority, and create alternative structures that aim to transform and redistribute power. This has resulted in long-term art projects that take the form of social movements, newspapers, and schools—and even Bruguera’s own provocative self-nomination for the 2018 Cuban presidential election, a gesture meant to invite others to do the same. Time and again, she proves that systems of power can be reimagined, changed, and made more inclusive and democratic.

Escuela de Arte Útil

As part of the exhibition, YBCA and Tania Bruguera will open a fully functioning school inside of the galleries.

Classes will be held Tuesday–Thursday from 4–8PM, and students will learn about the creation of “useful art” from some of the world’s most influential practitioners. The primary pupils of the school will be a new cohort of YBCA Fellows who are working under Bruguera’s direction. Gallery visitors and the public are always welcome to join classes on a drop-in basis. See the most recent class schedule below.

Whether through self-organized groups, individual initiatives, or the rise of user-generated content, people are developing new methods and social formations to deal with issues that were once the domain of the state. These initiatives are not isolated incidents, but also part of an art history that has been neglected, yet shapes our contemporary world. This class will focus on the concept of Arte Útil, which roughly translates into English as “useful art,” while also suggesting that art can be a tool or device. Studying the shifting role of contemporary art, the class will consider factors of the practice of Arte Útil such as institutional self-criticism, active hyperrealism, a-legality, reforming capital, beneficial outcomes, sustainability, intersection with other disciplines, and modes of creative collaboration. We will have weekly guest lectures and case study presentations, as well as access to ongoing Arte Útil projects in the Bay Area.

Summer Nostos Festival 2017

As part of its broader philanthropic activity and its continuous support to the Stavros Niarchos Foundation Cultural Center (SNFCC), the Stavros Niarchos Foundation (SNF) establishes -and supports through an exclusive grant- the open, week-long events that are held every June at the SNFCC. Admission to the events is free for all participants.

This year’s events will take place between June 18th and June 25th, 2017, and the Festival is introduced to the public under the name Summer Nostos Festival (www.SNFestival.org), suggesting a collective “return” to all those things and ideas that the arrival of the summer means for each one of us. The establishment of the SNFestival comes as a natural development of the successful open events held in previous years (2016: Metamorphosis. The SNFCC to the World, 2015: Light Up the Night at the Stavros Niarchos Park), both of which received a warm response from visitors.

The Summer Nostos Festival will consist of a continuously enriched cultural, educational and sports program, addressed to people of all ages and interests, aiming to provide an annual creative meeting point, fostering expression and the exchange of ideas.

The central programmatic areas of SNFestival 2017 unfold around music, dance, sports, open discussions, arts and architecture and, of course, include activities for children and families, while the program is complemented by additional events, such as screenings, guided tours and magical happenings! This year’s program will embrace over 75 different events in the course of 8 days, with the participation of 130 international and 160 Greek artists, as one of the Festival’s main objectives is to encourage collaborations between local and international artists, to promote the exchange of expertise and experience, and to set the ground for creative synergies or collaborations

The cultural offering, curated by the SNF Team in collaboration with Limor Tomer, Concerts & Lectures General Manager at the Metropolitan Museum of New York, as well as a team of consultants-experts in their respective fields, includes classical and contemporary classical music, rock, jazz, hip-hop and pop music concerts, performances and installations, lectures and movie screenings with live music, DJ sets, dance and many other events. All the above will activate multiple areas of the SNFCC, both indoors and outdoors, while two stages will be set up at the Stavros Niarchos Park, and a new stage will be set at the Canal.

With particular emphasis on the music program, the line-up will include, among others, artist Leonidas Kavakos in a unique recital, Yo La Tengo, one of the most influential bands from the American indie rock scene, the atmospheric British group The Cinematic Orchestra, the sensual voice of Belgian jazz singer Melanie De Biasio, the pioneering representative of the Greek electronic music scene Lena Platonos, the minimalist group Bang On A Can All-stars, the dynamic performer of the Greek alternative scene Monika in a collaboration with the ERT Symphonic Orchestra, the rapper, slam poet and New York Times and Esquire columnist, Saul Williams, the popular Greek band Melisses, the DJs Alex Cruz and Jonathan Toubin, Dimitris Kalantzis with his quintet and Kamerata. Music journalist Kafka (Katerina Kafentzi), following up on her personal project “Kafka Takes Notes”, will present and coordinate Q&A sessions between the audience and the artists, held before the live acts.

The Festival’s dance program presents the radical and daring choreographer Elizabeth Streb, in a performance that challenges the physical limits of dancers, and Apostolia Papadamaki in collaboration with Heidi Latsky Dance.

In regards to visual arts and architecture, Robert Storr and a team of acclaimed curators will present the program “Only Connect” -as a response to British novelist E.M. Foster’s mandate of the same title- a selection of video and performances that address the problems and possibilities associated with being connected at a time when the connections among people –as individuals, as groups, as communities, as nations- are under extreme stress. At the same time, during the SNFestival, the exhibition “Renzo Piano Building Workshop – Piece by Piece” will also be on show, presenting models, drawings, photographs and videos from architectural projects by the international firm Renzo Piano Building Workshop, realized during the last 30 years. The presentation of the exhibition at the SNFCC marks the completion of its tour which commenced in 2013 at the Gagosian Gallery in New York, where the show was solely funded by the SNF. The exhibition was later presented in Padua in 2014 at the Palazzo della Ragione, as part of the International Biennial Architecture, and at the Power Station of Art in Shanghai at 2015. The SNFCC’s visionary architect, Renzo Piano, will be in Athens once again, this time to discuss his work, philosophy and inspiration with the New York Times architectural critic Michael Kimmelman.

Physical exercise and sports remain at the heart of the activities hosted at the SNFCC. This summer, as part of the Summer Nostos Festival, the race SNF RUN: Running into the Future, returns for the 3rd year on Friday, June 23rd, on the occasion of the International Olympic Day. This time, in addition to the 6k race from Panathenaic Stadium to the SNFCC, an enriched route of 10k will also take place. In parallel, the 1k run for Special Olympics athletes will be organized once again. The race, along with a number of additional sports activities to be held as part of the Festival, is organized in collaboration with NGO “Regeneration & Progress”. In addition, the legendary chess master Garry Kasparov will be with us for yet another year, inviting Greece’s younger generation to a simultaneous chess encounter.

With a number of collaborations, the Greek National Opera (GNO) and the National Library of Greece (NLG) will play a vital role in the Festival. The GNO will participate in the programming with a performance by its new artistic director Giorgos Koumendakis, and a dance piece choreographed by its ballet director Antonis Foniadakis, performed by members of the GNO ballet and independent dancers. Respectively, the NLG will present a series of talks and an interactive exhibition on reading.

The week-long events, which aim to be a large, open celebration of public encounters, fun and optimism, will be complemented by guided tours, movie screenings, discussions, creative and recreational programs for children and the amazing magic tricks of internationally acclaimed magician Mark Mitton.

Admission to events is free for all.

We are here

In honor of the MCA’s 50th anniversary, the museum presents We Are Here, a major three-part exhibition drawn from the MCA’s significant collection of twentieth- and twenty-first-century art. The multigenerational artists featured in the exhibition have lived and worked around the world and create works in a broad range of media, including painting, sculpture, installation, sound, film, and video. We Are Here reexamines these works from the vantage point of our present moment, declaring that art and culture have the power to change the way that we see and act in the world.

The exhibition overturns the traditional model of the anniversary exhibition, focusing instead on the relationship between artist and viewer. Museums’ collections and the knowledge and ideas they represent are not static. They are assembled over time, encapsulating the momentary interests of their curators, donors, and publics. The meaning of a work may shift based on a viewer’s perspective or the passage of time. To demonstrate this idea, three of the museum’s curators mined our collection to develop We Are Here in three sections based on themes that resonate with our time and relate to our inner, outer, and social lives.

I Am You, located on the museum’s second floor, gathers works that underscore how each of our unique social and natural landscapes shape a diverse cultural environment. It includes works by recognized artists such as Francis Bacon, Marisol, and Shirin Neshat, as well as younger artists, such as Jonathas de Andrade and Lynette Yiadom-Boakye—all of whom rely upon personal experiences to illuminate the vastness of contemporary life. It presents our interior universe as part of a larger constellation of individuals.

In October, two additional parts of the exhibition, You Are Here and We are Everywhere, open on the museum’s fourth floor. You Are Here examines how the role of the viewer has changed over time, especially since the 1960s, from passive onlooker to active participant. Artists such as Pierre Huyghe and Robert Morris forge a new physical relationship between the viewer and the art object. Other artists, including Huang Yong-Ping, explore representations of political figures and political power—specifically, how the body may be subjected to power.

We Are Everywhere, showcases artists who borrow from popular culture—soup cans, movie stills, neon signage, or floor tiles—to consider the ways that our social lives inflect our perceptions of the world around us. Artists such as Andy Warhol, Robert Rauschenberg, and Bruce Nauman, as well as Chicago Imagists Karl Wirsum and Roger Brown, re-present and reveal social realities that may otherwise go unnoticed. Artists such as Stan Douglas, Cindy Sherman, Gillian Wearing, Jeff Koons have engaged with new forms of media to extend the reach of their own viewpoints and experiences. Barbara Kruger and Lawrence Abu Hamdan further encourage us to think twice about the power structures in which we invest, be they the notion of the state or the corporation.

Together, these three independently curated yet interrelated “chapters” invite viewers to bring their own perspectives to the museum’s collection and to think about how to be active participants in the meaning of art and its making.

I Am You is organized by José Esparza Chong Cuy, Pamela Alper Associate Curator; You Are Here is organized by Naomi Beckwith, Marilyn and Larry Fields Curator; and We Are Everywhere is organized by Omar Kholeif, Manilow Senior Curator and Director of Global Initiatives, at the Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago.

Immigrancy

alien, immigrant, expat, asylum seeker, refugee, undocumented, tourist, fugitive, exiled, homeless

All of the above are words used to describe people and situations related to the individuals who come to live in, travel throughout, or escape from, a country or condition. Every single artist in this exhibition has been one of the above. Despite their situational differences, all peoples navigating immigrancy hold a powerful position. This exhibition is additive. These works of thought will come and go as their creators. The exhibition will change. It will never be static.

The noun we assign to each differing situation has a distinct connotation and stigma attached; we see manifestations of these differing connotations in legislation, in travel bans, in fetishized radical fantasies of revolution, and in the selection of words themselves (e.g. the use of ‘expat’ mostly for people of European descent and ‘immigrant’ for people of color).

…invaluable and threatening to the new leaders in the U.S. Not only are immigrants among America’s most defenseless residents—making them the easiest to scapegoat—they also bear inconvenient witness by their very presence to a history of authoritarianism that complicates the power-hungry narratives of figures like…

Artists must take a cue from America’s most vulnerable residents: its refugees. Before you get back to work at your studio or office, assume, like many of America’s most defenseless immigrants, that everything you treasure— home, family, well being your own hard-fought place in the world—can be taken away from you tomorrow.

Confessions of an American Refugee, Christian Viveros-Fauné

With Immigrancy, Samsøñ is presenting its final exhibition at 450 Harrison Avenue/29 Thayer Street. With this presentation, we announce our future status as émigré: asylum seeker of culture, nomadic contributor, transitional refugee, fugitive participant, and exiled aspirant in the artistic diaspora.

Boston’s South End has been home for almost 14 years: we have seen the neighborhood, climate and audience change. September is when the students from all over arrive in Boston; it’s always stressful to move all you have to what you think you want. Who and what helps? FEMA? EAS? NOAA? DACA? IKEA? MAGA? TSA? Transnational corporations with the same rights as individuals?!

We have seen local collectors, curators and critics falter and we have seen galleries exhibiting the same demographic of artists, time and time again.

We have decided to pivot our focus: Samson is in the process of transitioning to a private advisorial service with non-profit status. Samson is not closing: in a way, it’s expanding. We will be continuing with art fairs, satellite projects (New Orleans, LA & Atlanta, GA), alternative domestic spaces (Boston, MA & Wellington, FL) and traveling container exhibitions (Istanbul & Havana) in hopes of adding to the diversity of culture and thought.

Constant growth with resources that don’t grow?

Artists: Kader Attia, Nadia Ayari, Meriem Bennani, Ashley Bickerton, Tania Bruguera, Carlos Jimenez Cahua, Jimmie Durham, Lalla Essaydi, Jonah Freeman & Michael Phelan, Ariel Basson Freiberg, Regina Jose Galindo, Jeffrey Gibson, Josephine Halvorson, Lucy Kim, Andy Li, Glenn Ligon, Carlos Martiel, Gabriel Martinez, Andrew Mowbray, Gabriel Orozco, Daniel Pflumm, William Pope l, Lisa Sigal, Alexandria Smith, Kianja Strobert, Umar Rashid (frohawk two feathers), Ai Wei Wei, Anicka Yi.

Monument Lab

Monument Lab: A Public Art and History Project operates around a central guiding question: What is an appropriate monument for the current city of Philadelphia? This line of inquiry is aimed at building civic dialogue and stoking historical imagination as forces for social change.

From September 16–November 19, the Monument Lab curatorial team and Mural Arts have installed temporary prototype monuments by 20 artists across 10 sites in Philadelphia’s iconic public squares and neighborhood parks. These site-specific, socially engaged artworks are presented together with research labs, where creative monument proposals are collected from Philadelphians and visitors. The proposals will become a dataset of public speculation presented in a final report the city. During the exhibition, the entire collection is on view at the Morris Gallery at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts.

Philadelphia is a city full of monuments and memorials. Philadelphia is also a city full of monumental histories, many of which are little known, obscured, or simply unacknowledged. These underrepresented histories often exist in tension with officially acknowledged narratives. The projects that make up Monument Lab address issues of social justice and solidarity, including matters of race, gender, sexuality, class, and national belonging. The monuments proposed through this exhibition are made of stone and bronze, as well as recycled materials, images, sounds, and the byproducts of community process.

Five years ago, Monument Lab emerged from a series of classroom conversations. In 2015, it grew to include the installation of a pair of outdoor classrooms in the courtyard of City Hall through a discovery phase funded by The Pew Center for Arts & Heritage. In the continued spirit of collaborative learning, this current citywide exhibition with Mural Arts uses monuments to understand the ways we live together with our histories, our ideas for uplift, and our urgencies. As we experience this moment of intensity and uncertainty around public monuments—especially those that symbolize the enduring legacies of racial injustice and social inequality—we are reminded that we must find new, critical ways to reflect on the monuments we have inherited and imagine future monuments we have yet to build.

Drawing on meaningful modes of social engagement through creative response, the project is an invitation to not only answer a shared question but to explore, excavate, and reflect multiple forms of historical knowledge. Rather than asking for only the feasible or practical, Monument Lab seeks ideas that speak to the evolving core values and visions of the city.

Artists: Tania Bruguera, Mel Chin, Kara Crombie, Tyree Guyton, Hans Haacke, David Hartt, Sharon Hayes, King Britt & Joshua Mays, KLIP Collective, Duane Linklater, Emeka Ogboh, Karyn Olivier, Michelle Angela Ortiz, Kaitlin Pomerantz, RAIR – Recycled Artist in Residency, Alexander Rosenberg, Jamel Shabazz, Hank Willis Thomas, Shira Walinsky & Southeast by Southeast, Marisa Williamson

The Monument Lab Curatorial Team is led by Paul M. Farber and Ken Lum.

Endgame

An artist, performer or, as she defines herself, an artivist, Tania Bruguera, has taken it upon herself to write her own story of Cuba. She does so in terms that are free and uninhibited. This time around she has chosen the words of Beckett, in an End Game the title of which alone is indicative of a whole programme.

In a country where speaking up is something not to be taken for granted, Tania Bruguera has never stopped searching for different modes of expression. Her aim: to write Cuba’s story in her own terms. Her work is situated at the crossroads between the visual arts and performance. By inviting anonymous individuals to take to the microphone in the emblematic Square of the Revolution, her concern was, and still is, to give others the chance to speak rather than taking it away from them. The Cuban government did not back down, but then neither did Tania Bruguera: in 2015, in La Havana, she founded the Hannah Arendt Institute of Artivism. Its objective was to highlight the need for a “civil literacy campaign” in order to regain a lost freedom of speech. Her decision to bring End Game to the stage reflects a desire to reconnect with words. Words which are also those of tyranny: “I’ll give you just enough to keep you from dying”, as Hamm says to Clov. Around ten years ago, the words of Beckett were the inspiration behind the series of installations she put together under the title of Study for End Game. This time round, the artivist embraces the text body and soul, and gives it a voice. End Game opens with the following programmatic words: “Finished, it’s finished, nearly finished, it must be nearly finished”. Now, it’s over to Tania Bruguera.

Directed by Tania Bruguera

With, Brian Mendes, Jess Barbagallo and two local actors to be announced

Architects, Dotan Gertler Studio

Voices, Jacob Roberts, Chloe Brooks

Lighting, Rui Monteiro

Sound, Rui Lima & Sérgio Martins

Sound Engineer, Pedro Lima

Sound Recording, Luke Martinez

Assistant director, Mitchell Polonsky

Technical direction, Patrícia Gilvaia

Production: BoCA Biennial (Lisbon/Oporto) // Production direction: Ana Rita Osório // Executive production: Francisca Aires // Co-production São João National Theatre (Oporto, PT) ; Colectivo 84 (PT) ; Théâtre Nanterre-Amandiers (Nanterre, FR) / Festival d’Automne à Paris (Paris, FR) ; Kunsten Festival des Arts (Brussels, BE) ; International Summer Festival Kampnagel (Hamburg, DE) ; Estudio Bruguera// With support from the Fondation d’entreprise Hermès as part of its New Settings programme. With the support of Onda

Premiered on 20 April 2017 at BoCA Biennial (Lisbon/Porto)

Does Art Have Users?

Does Art Have Users? is a symposium exploring art in terms of its use value — that is, whether and how art can be used as a tool — focusing on the roles that individuals and constituencies play in socially engaged artistic practices. From the platforms needed to support community-created artwork to the role of documentation and archives, participants will discuss the varied ways in which artists work with individuals and organizations at the intersection of art and activism to imagine new contributions to social, civic, and political life.

Bringing together the leading voices of the Arte Útil (Useful Art) movement, along with participants from related fields, the event incorporates the second international Arte Útil Summit. Focusing on specific needs and urgent questions animating Bay Area neighborhoods, the symposium includes panel discussions, presentations, and workshops that explore art and its potential usership from a wide variety of viewpoints. Topics include immigration, youth development policy, and civic knowledge sharing.

Program

Wednesday, September 27, 2017

Mission District Field Trip: Walking Tour with the Anti-Eviction Mapping Project

Meeting place: Bernal Heights Park Parking Lot, 3450 Folsom Street

4–5:30 p.m.

Thursday, September 28, 2017

Panel: Can We Teach Artists to Be Useful?

Yerba Buena Center for the Arts

10:30 a.m.–noon

Panel: What Can We Learn about Art’s Social Uses?

Yerba Buena Center for the Arts

12:30–2 p.m.

Panel: What Happens at the Intersection of Art and Data?

SFMOMA, Phyllis Wattis Theater

4–5:30 p.m.

Panel: What Does a Useful Museum Look Like?

SFMOMA, Phyllis Wattis Theater

6–7:30 p.m.

Opening: Public Knowledge Library

SFMOMA, Koret Education Center

7:30–9 p.m.

Friday, September 29, 2017

Panel: How Do Artists Create More Inclusive Systems of Power?

SFMOMA, Phyllis Wattis Theater

10:30 a.m.–noon

Panel: What Can Public Knowledge Be?

SFMOMA, Phyllis Wattis Theater

1–2:30 p.m.

Panel: How Can Libraries Incubate Contemporary Art?

SFMOMA, Phyllis Wattis Theater

3–4:30 p.m.

Panel + Performance: What Is the Sound of Your San Francisco?

San Francisco Public Library, Main Library, Koret Auditorium

7–8:30 p.m.

Saturday, September 30, 2017

Workshop: In Print/Imprint: Designing Political Print Pieces with Users in Mind

SFMOMA, Koret Education Center, Studio 2

11 a.m.–1 p.m.

Workshop: Seeing Social Practice

SFMOMA, Koret Education Center, Studio 1

11 a.m.–1 p.m.

Roundtable: Can Art Be a Tool for Thinking in New Ways about Civic Life?

Yerba Buena Center for the Arts

2–6 p.m.

Part of SFMOMA’s Phyllis Wattis Distinguished Lecture Series, as well as our Public Knowledge initiative, Does Art Have Users? is presented in partnership with the Asociation de Arte Útil and the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts and its exhibition Tania Bruguera: Talking to Power / Hablándole al Poder.

This event series is free; museum admission is not required. Seating for each event is available on a first-come, first-served basis.

Collection Collective. Template for a Future Model of Representation

The project Collection Collective. Template for a Future Model of Representation explores the present-day crisis of the collection-based institution of contemporary art and identifies potential in a model of (art) collection that is simultaneously assembled, owned and run by artists and other cultural producers. A five-week-long exhibition with invited artists, a closed workshop and a public seminar with artists, lawyers, social theorists, economists, and academics are organized in an attempt to question how such a model could function.

The project considers the contemporary reciprocities between a collection’s usefulness without use and its market value, and between meaning-making and financial capitalization. It observes how institutions of contemporary art opt for blockbuster shows with high visitor numbers whilst their own collections lie in storage; or how private collections are revolving more and more around collectors whose fortunes are built on suspicious businesses or financial speculation. One could also point to the transnational collections kept secret in no man’s lands between borders, the hollow flow of images in Instagram-type collecting, the speculations of the auction houses, and the artists’ collections with works by other artists.

Collection Collective does not attempt to situate itself outside these parameters, but rather aims to change the position from which cultural producers and consumers negotiate their roles. In our proposal for articulating a collective collection we seek to de-privatize the collecting subject: to rethink the relationship between self-interest and collective goal, between individual addiction and group strategy, between private taste and collective socio-political tactic and between insular neurosis and therapeutic friendship. Collection Collective. Template for a Future Model of Representation seeks to understand the practical ways in which such a subject could be articulated within a collective collection. The type of collection we propose is owned, managed and maintained by its producers. It is not defined by national or geographic determinations; it recognizes the inherent subjective grounds of its constitution and does not attempt to grow indefinitely. The Bratislava instalment of Collection Collective is offered as a template that could be replicated in other circumstances, with other people, in other forms.

Once Collection Collective ends, all works will be returned to the artists. We hope and expect that the future will see Collection Collective effectively established, yet we are open to the possibility that, until then, it remains a conceptual proposal in progress, which we are inviting you to experience and discuss in Bratislava.

Curated by: Judit Angel, Vlad Morariu, Raluca Voinea

Participating artists: Vlad Basalici, Tania Bruguera, Fokus Grupa, Jana Kapelova, Dan Mihaltianu, Anetta Mona Chisa & Lucia Tkacova, Ilona Nemeth, Lia Perjovschi, Martin Piacek, Martha Rosler, Martina Ruzickova & Max Lysacek, Peter Szabo

Further contribution: Andi Gavril, Alena Kunicova, Peter Lenyi, Dan Perjovschi, Alexandra Pirici

Hannah Arendt Center’s 10th Annual Fall Conference

Crises of Democracy: Thinking In Dark Times

We are experiencing a worldwide rebellion against liberal democracy. In Hungary, Russia, Turkey and other countries across Europe, right- and left-wing parties flirt with authoritarian rule. In the United States, President Donald J. Trump channels the voices of the self-described disenfranchised. Representative governments everywhere are shown to be corrupt, inefficient, and undemocratic. The great political achievement of the modern era – stable representative democracy – is everywhere under attack.

Hannah Arendt knew that democracy is tenuous. In 1970 she famously wrote:

“Representative government is in crisis today, partly because it has lost, in the course of time, all institutions that permitted the citizens’ actual participation, and partly because it is now gravely affected by the disease from which the party system suffers: bureaucratization and the two parties’ tendency to represent nobody except the party machines.”

Democracy is weakened when citizens are encouraged to hand over the time-consuming work of self-government to professional politicians. Arendt was continuously critical of representative models of democracy that rely upon experts in place of participation, which is why she rooted the crisis of democracy in the dissipation of public power. The disempowerment of the people in representative democracy embraces a bourgeois preference to pursue individual interests, to be relieved of the duty of politics and public virtue. But as we have seen recently, this separation between citizens and government has only further weakened the principles of liberal, representative democracy.

Today, the authority and power of experts is waning. The elected politicians that represent the traditional institutions of democracy are being replaced by outsiders. The rise of networks with access to infinite information means that the authority of any one source is diminished. Expertise of the press is challenged by online news and social media. The authority of democratic government is undermined by accusations of corruption and bias. And the hypothetical claim of science to truth is diminished by the infinite multiplication of information. In all realms, power has shifted toward the masses of individuals who identify as outsiders. And they are organizing themselves in energetic communities based on eccentric beliefs impervious to wider standards of common sense and truth. In light of these crisis of democracy we are at risk of losing our common liberal pluralist community, a meaningfulness unity amongst real differences.

The crisis facing democratic regimes today is cause for serious concern; it is also an opportunity for deep reflection on questions and assumptions concerning liberal representative democracy. Instead of assuming a defensive posture and taking up arms to defend the status quo, our conference asks: How can we take advantage of this crisis to make democracy stronger?

Our two-day conference will seek to answer the following questions:

Are we experiencing a crisis of democracy?

Are we witnessing the rise of authoritarian or fascist governments?

Does rule by experts and bureaucrats threaten democracy?

How does the centralization of power contribute to the crisis of democracy?

Does identity politics threaten or enable pluralist government?

Does the information explosion render obsolete the authority of democratic institutions?

What motivates us to take part in democratic processes?

Is representative democracy an inherently unstable model of government?

More info about the program here: https://www.facebook.com/events/267429420327639/

Tania Bruguera was invited to be the 2017 National Endowment for the Humanities/Hannah Arendt Center Distinguished Visiting Fellow

Festival Albertine 2017

Curated by pioneering feminist writers and activists Gloria Steinem and Robin Morgan, the fourth annual Festival Albertine will take place from November 1st through 5th, 2017 and offers an opportunity to realize a vital exchange of ideas between leading francophone and U.S.-based thinkers and artists.

The event is a timely new iteration of a longstanding and mutually-energizing dialogue that stretches back to the mid-20th Century, when Simone de Beauvoir published her groundbreaking 1949 book The Second Sex, having traveled across the United States for four months in 1947; and Betty Friedan’s The Feminine Mystique debuted in 1963, inspiring the establishment of the National Organization for Women. In 1972, Ms. magazine’s historic inaugural cover story, “We Had Abortions,” followed the example of French feminists who had signed a petition demanding abortion’s decriminalization. In 1984, de Beauvoir and Morgan joined forces to cofound the Sisterhood Is Global Institute, the first international feminist think tank.

While the U.S. and France have long produced some of the most influential feminist thinkers and still do, their sometimes diverging perspectives on questions surrounding issues such as religion, childcare, and work-life balance, together with their commonalities, will offer material for fruitful debate.

Events will take place at Albertine Books, located in the Cultural Services of the French Embassy in New York (972 Fifth Avenue). Festival Albertine is free, open to the public. Seating is limited and works on a first-come, first-serve basis and will be streamed live at livestream.com/frenchembassy.

FESTIVAL LINEUP

Wednesday, November 1 | 7PM

From the Voting Booth to Your Living Room

A conversation between Christiane Taubira, Gloria Steinem, and Robin Morgan on how the fight for more diverse and inclusive political representation can have a very real impact on our daily lives.

Thursday, November 2 | 7PM

Making the Invisible Visible

Taking stock of the dangers and crises facing the new media environment, Laure Adler, Soraya Chemaly, and Nassira El Moaddem discuss how to make an individual, group, fact, idea, or chosen identity visible in the current media landscape. Moderated by Lauren Wolfe.

Friday, November 3 | 7PM

Body: Image vs. Reality

Roxane Gay, Mona Chollet and Camille Morineau explore the struggle to reclaim the integrity of the female body and various representations that reject its objectification and oppression.

Saturday, November 4 | 5PM

The Politics of Language

Authors Mary Kathryn Nagle, Marie Darrieussecq, Anne Garréta and Robin Coste Lewis examine the way languages—the very first way we assign a gender to the world around us—shape our actions and opinions. Moderated by Gloria Steinem.

Saturday, November 4 | 7:30PM

The Politics of Religion

Wassyla Tamzali, Rabbi Delphine Horvilleur, Annie Laurie Gaylor, and Daisy Khan discuss the influence of religion on women’s lives. Moderated by Robin Morgan.

Sunday, November 5 | 3:30PM

It Starts in the Streets

The panel will open with a spoken word poetry performance by Staceyann Chin.

Marie de Cenival, “Frida Kahlo” of the Guerrilla Girls, Houda Benyamina and Tania Bruguera will reflect on the ways that big changes have begun in small places, both through activism and through the arts. Moderated by Elizabeth Sackler.

Sunday, November 5 | 6PM

An Egalitarian Future

Caroline de Haas, Elizabeth Diller, Cecile Richards, and Heidi Steltzer will discuss how the equality and welfare of women hold the key to our future. Moderated by Carol Jenkins.

All events will take place at Albertine at 972 Fifth Avenue and are free and open to the public. All events will be streamed live at livestream.com/frenchembassy and archived at the same address.

Retrospectives of Carole Roussopoulos and Nathalie Magnan at Anthology Film Archives

From November 5-9, Anthology Film Archives, the international center for film study, preservation, and exhibition in New York, will present rare films by feminists Carole Roussopoulos (1945-2009), a pioneer of activist media in France, and Nathalie Magnan (1956-2016), a media theoretician and champion of cyberfeminism. Follow this link to view the schedule of screenings.

Festival Albertine is made possible with major support from The Recanati-Kaplan Foundation, Susannah Hunnewell, Van Cleef & Arpels, Air France, Fondation CHANEL, and Institut français. Generous support is provided by Champagne Pommery and Intercontinental New York Barclay.