dancer and teacher

Born in Catania in 1982, he began with Latin dances and flamenco and in 2008 he graduated from Susanna Beltrami’s Pier Lombardo Academy in Milan in contemporary technique and choreography. In 2022 he attended and completed the Next Generation choreography and direction course at Aterballetto (Reggio Emilia). Freelance dancer in various contexts including: Teatro Antico Taormina, Teatro Cassanese, TdC Milan, Arena Di Verona, Teatro Piscator Catania, Nuova Danza Palermo di C. Cona, Studio Festi Group Varese. TV and fashion: Rai, Mediaset and Sky, World Music Awards Montecarlo and for the brands Marni, Frankie Morello, Swarovski. In 2009 she joined the Compagnia Susanna Beltrami, of which she will be a permanent member until 2019. In 2010, together with Lara Viscuso, she founded the Compagnia VuotoPerPieno, for which she created and danced several shows, including: Gamelan; AmeName; Idioti Ipertrofici, L’ultimo Bohemien e la Lumaca; Rido_N_danza; La Pragmatica del #ciaoinvisibile; La Banalità del Cilindro, San Ti Melisses. In 2017 he creates, directs and produces Impronte_D’artista (San G. Piacentino Cultural Review), in 2018 Rassegna_Dimissioni_Danza at DanceHaus Milano. A contemporary dance teacher, he continues his research by teaching at professional academies and courses for amateurs throughout Italy. Since 2017 he has been a stable dancer with the Sanpapié company in Milan, covering different roles.

dancer and teacher

Sofia is born in the province of Florence and leads a life as an athlete since she is a child dedicating herself first to artistic gymnastics and then to dance. She continues her path academic at Trinity Laban Conservatoire of Music and Dance in London graduating in 2016.

Among her qualifications, there is also the Master in performing arts obtained at the London Contemporary dance school (2018). She specializes in floorwork technique thanks to the masters Fernanda Prata, Jorge Crecis, Katie Lusby, and Francisco Cordoba. You also collaborate as an apprentice with companies such as Scottish Dance Theater (Dundee, Scotland), Danish Dance theater (Copenhagen, Denmark) and José Limon Dance Company (NY) and she works in London for such choreographers Marina Collard, Zoi Dimitriou, Dam Van Huynh, Shobana Jeyasingh, Allen Kaeja (Kaeja Dance Company) and Tony Adigun (Avant Garde Dance Company). At the end of 2016 she starts working for the English company EDgeDance Company, directed by Jeanne Yasko with whom she goes on a four-month tour in the UK, Portugal, Austria, and Italy.

From 2017 she moves to Milan and starts working for Sanpapié, Ariella Vidach A.I.E.P., directed by Ariella Vidach and Claudio Prati and also for international artists such as Jonathan Burrows (UK) and Martin Talaga (CZ). She also started her own path as a contemporary dance teacher (dynamic floorwork, contact-impro and release techniques), ballet and theater-dance teaching to professionals, beginners, adult amateurs and children in schools such as Artichoke Academy, Sharing Training Milan, MoveOn, Theater Field, American school of Milan and Danceattitude (Milan), Movimento danza (NA), Talent Academy (FI), La Fenice School (AL), Danzaria (AR), Stoke Newington School (London) and Escola de Artes (Porto). She also experiments as a choreographer by producing some unpublished works including Transférre (2018), in collaboration with Martina Monaco and part of the ‘Twins’ young choreographers support project of Sanpapié, winner of the Lumintenda 2018 award (Modena); Origami, choreographic solo (2019), finalist of Corto In danza 2020 (Cagliari) and presented at The Pink House Festival (Paris), Teatro dell’affratellamento and Florence Dance Festival (Florence), Cajka Popular avant-garde theater (Modena) and Palazzo Ducale (Solofra, AV); Huracan, in collaboration with Loredana Tarnovschi and Andrea Giomi (2020), Finalist of the TWAIN 2020 award (Tuscania) and presented at Teatro della Limonaia (Sesto Fiorentino), Fabbrica del Vapore (Milan) and Palazzo Ducale (Solofra, AV); Object-Oriented-Choreography, in collaboration with Francesco Luzzana presented in the 2020 Triennale Milano season.

Projects produced by A.I.E.P, Triennale Milano and Sanpapié company.

Born in Magenta, in the province of Milan, he trained as a dancer with the Padova Danza company directed by Gabriella Furlan Malvezzi, with which he performed in Italy and abroad (Paris, Dubai, Cannes, Beijing); and as an actor under the guidance of Roberto Innocente. Having moved to Milan in 2003, he completed his artistic training by attending workshops with Mamadou Dioume and Danio Manfredini. Since 2010, he has been pursuing the visual and performing art research project Elektromove | Visual and performing art: a space for sharing more than a theatrical company, it draws inspiration from the blending of different artistic languages and various influences (nighttime animation, physical theater, video mapping, electronic music, and digital scenography), taking part in national and international festivals.

In Sanpapié since 2013, he has danced in 2+2=5 (2013), En haut en bas (2015), Ode all’olio (2015, of which he is a co-author), and participated as a performer in Memoire. Storie di bellezza nascosta (2017) and Balerhaus (2017).

dancer and teacher

Matteo Sacco was born in Milan and trained artistically between Germany and the UK.

His performing background began at Jaques Lecoq’s school in London – the London

International School of Performing Arts, LISPA – and continues between the Trinity Laban Conservatoire of

Music and Dance and the Iwanson International School of Contemporary Dance in Munich.

He then began working as a freelance dancer, with choreographers such as Ersan Montag, Maciej

Kunminski and in the Oper Ballet of the Bavarian Staatoper.

In 2016 he became an apprentice for Zfin Malta under the direction of Mavin Khoo, here he experienced the works of different artists, of the likes of Ivan Perez and Jose Agudo.

In 2018 she starts working for Sanpapié Dance Company, in Milan, where he works as performer, company and assistant to choreographer Lara Guidetti.

He begins his choreographic research parallel to his performing career.

In 2015, he created Text Your Darkness Back, winning first prize in composition at the competition

Opus Ballet in Florence, Italy.

His second choreographic work, Forlorn, is performed in Dimissioni Festival (2018),

Caffeine festival (2018) and Teatri del Cimone festival (2019). In 2020, he produces his third

choreographic work, Three Little Rooms, which continues on stage at the Teatri del Cimone (2021), the Caffeine Festival (2021), at the Pacta of Theatres (2021) and at the Hier=jetzt Festival in Munich (2022).

In 2023 he creates his third study, A little Grief, presented at the Hier=jetzt Festival in Munich (2023).

Freelance dancer and performer

Born in ’83, freelance dancer and performer, she has taken part in numerous productions in major Sicilian theatres since a very young age.

In 2006, she moved to Milan to perfect her studies thanks to a scholarship at the PierLombardo Academy, directed by Susanna Beltrami, with whom she collaborated, then for ten years, as a dancer and performer in all the productions of her Company (Compagnia Susanna Beltrami), and as assistant to choreography.

She collaborated as a dancer with the Compagnia EgriBiancoDanza of Turin in productions in the years 2009\2010, in Italy and abroad.

With Japanese percussionist Leonard Eto at the Teatro dell’Arte Triennale Milano, the Festival dei due mondi di Spoleto and the Festival delle Orestiadi di Gibellina.

As a performer for Marni, Marras, Gucci and various designers during Milan FashionWeek.

Dancer soloist for the opera “Aida” at the Ravenna Festival 2019 directed by Cristina Mazzavillani Muti.

She collaborates as a dancer and performer with the Compagnia Sanpapiè.

Together with Fabrizio Calanna, she founded the Compagnia VuotoPerPieno in which she is a dancer and assistant choreographer.

She currently collaborates as an aerial dancer with Compagnia StudioFesti and MolecoleShow for events in Italy and abroad.

From 2016 to 2019 and from 2023 she is teacher of Contemporary Technique at Accademia Kataklo’ directed by Giulia Staccioli, currently teacher of Classical, Modern and Contemporary Technique at various schools in Milan including DanceGroup at DanceHaus of Susanna Beltrami, responsible for Sanpapiè training and choreographer for the rhythmic gymnastics team (A1 series) Forza e Coraggio of Milan.

Since 2022, she has been artistic director of the professional start-up course DANCEgroup LAB.

She holds internships throughout Italy.

actor

Saverio Bari is an actor, director and playwright. He graduates from the Alessandra Theater School

Galante Garrone in 1997. In 1998 he is selected for the project of higher education Ecole Maitres. He perfects himself with the Masters Ariane Mnouchkine and Matthias Langhoff. He works, among others, with directors Walter Le Moli, Gigi Dall’Aglio, Lorenzo Salveti. He works as an actor in several RAI and Mediaset productions directed by, among others, Manetti Bros, Michele Soavi, Fabio Calvi. Since 2015 he is a permanent collaborator of Sanpapié as an actor, playwright, and vocal performer. With Sanpapié he realises, among others, the shows 24 times per second, Amartés – Il Viaggio di Caino, Orpheus Reloaded and Mémoire. From the collaboration between Sanpapié and Teatro della Contraddizione is born the theatrical format Balerhaus, which after having made its debut at the TDC goes on to be performed in Festivals and Theaters such as OrienteOccidente, Granara, Elfo Puccini Theatre, Teatro della Tosse, LAC.

He writes text and scripts and as a dramaturg, he is involved in numerous performing art projects and site-specific shows for organizations and companies such as the National Foundation of Dance / Aterballetto, the Estense Gallery of Modena, the Municipal Theatre of Carpi, the Crono Eventi association, the Festivaldellafilosofia. For several years he has been carrying out research that investigates the relationship between music, poetry, and performance. The show A Minute of Silence, of which he is the author and interpreter, made his debut at Teatri del Cimone Festival in August 2018. Since 2008 he has been involved in theatre training.

Dancer / performer

Born in Magenta, in the province of Milan, he trained as a dancer with the Padova Danza company directed by Gabriella Furlan Malvezzi, with which he performed in Italy and abroad (Paris, Dubai, Cannes, Beijing); and as an actor under the guidance of Roberto Innocente. After moving to Milan in 2003, he completed his artistic training by attending workshops with Mamadou Dioume and Danio Manfredini. Since 2010, he has been advancing the visual and performing art research project Elektromove | Visual and performing art: more of a space for sharing than a theatrical company, it thrives on the fusion of various artistic languages and draws inspiration from diverse sources (nighttime animation, physical theater, video mapping, electronic music, and digital scenography), participating in national and international festivals.

Since 2013, he has been a part of Sanpapié, where he has danced in 2+2=5 (2013), En haut en bas (2015), Ode all’olio (2015, of which he is a co-author), and has taken part as a performer in Memoire. Storie di bellezza nascosta (2017) and Balerhaus (2017).

Performer, dancer, teacher, creator of multimedia events, videomaker

Born in Rome in 1956, he has lived in Genoa since 2011.

His basic training was in sport, he then cultivated a passion for movement, following study and work paths that were decidedly more related to gesture as language. In 1981, he obtained a degree in motor sciences at the Higher Institute of Physical Education in Rome, and from the late 1970s to the present day, he has taught and collaborated in various contexts: artistic, educational, in public institutions, in mental health centres and in prisons. It is in all these contexts that his research takes place; an experience fundamentally of relationships, which has influenced his working methodology, characterised by educational, pedagogical and social aspects. This methodology is inspired by the sense of play, improvisation and real-time composition.

Of great importance for his training were his work experiences with Jerome Savary, Robert Wilson, Amy Luckenbach, Bill T. Jones, Boris Vecchio, Studio Azzurro and Patrice Chereau. He has lived in several Italian cities and abroad, collaborating as dancer/performer with Teatro alla Scala in Milan, L’Opera National De Paris, Staatsoper Berlin, The Place Theater of London, Fringe Festival of Edinburgh, Music Theater festival of Pakistan, Festival musica y ideas Mexico City, Studio Azzurro Milan, Accademia di Brera Milan, Yale University USA, Millenium Stadium Beijing.

The interest in the performative act as a social fact, shared with other artists and with people of different ages, backgrounds and cultures, has gradually materialised in various interventions carried out on the territory, with the people who live it: “Iblu del Lago” Festival (Trevignano R., Rome 2002-2004), “un Po blu” Festival (Tresigallo, Ferrara 2004-2007); “sinfonia di parole” (Genoa 2012 – Milan 2014); “l’isola sonora” (Genoa 2013); “dame” (Naples, Ferrara, Rome, Genoa, from 1995/2016); “il caffè sospeso” (Genoa 2017).

In recent years, his attention has turned towards the everydayness of urban contexts, conceiving blitzes, or surprise collective performances, aimed at suddenly subverting the rhythms and habits of a place, creating disorientation and spontaneous reactions, in the casual spectators/actors.

In 2015, he graduated in History/Anthropology, at the Faculty of Letters and Philosophy of the University of Genoa.

Press Office

By passion, study and personal attitude, I have been involved in communication and media relations for dance and theatre for several years.

I started in 2004 as a production assistant for the Fondazione Mantova Capitale Europea dello Spettacolo for the Arlecchino d’Oro Festival, and two years later I became general manager of the Italian-Swiss dance association and company Ariella Vidach – AiEP, dealing with the organisation of press conferences, festivals, and performances.

Since 2010, I have been working as a freelancer. The focus of my work is in Milan, where I have taken care of the institutional press office for the PimOff and Leonardo da Vinci theatres and regularly collaborate with associations, companies and private individuals for the communication of events in the city’s main cultural venues (Teatro Elfo Puccini, Triennale, Mudec, Fabbrica del Vapore, Casa dei Diritti) or at special events such as Fuori Salone.

I have had the opportunity to collaborate with many artists and companies over the years: Fattoria Vittadini, for which I have been press office manager since 2010 – receiving the 2019 Critical Network Award for Communication Strategies -, Daniele Albanese, Compagnia Abbondanza/Bertoni, CampoverdeOttolini, Teatro dei Lupi, Lyra Teatro, Antonella Ferrari.

I also collaborated with the Centro Servizi Culturali Santa Chiara in Trento as national press office.

Since 2013 I have also been PR Advertising Manager for Danza&Danza, Italy’s leading dance industry magazine.

He began studying dance in 2005 at the Centrodanzasavona Training Centre; during his training he took part in various performances with Ensamble Cendasa. He deepened his study of contemporary dance and improvisation techniques at Nuova Officina della Danza (Turin). Selected to participate in the Biennale Dance College 2021, under the direction of Wayne McGregor (Venice). Since September 2021 he has been a permanent dancer with the company Sanpapié (MI), for which he has taken part in various productions, performing at the Teatro Elfo Puccini, Fonderia Aterballetto and other prestigious theatres. Since May 2022, he has been working permanently for the company Lost Movement (MI). At the same time he is teaching dance theatre and contemporary dance at the Sanpapié training courses. From November 2020 he studies at the Faculty of Sport and Exercise Sciences at Unipegaso University; from December 2022 he works as a personal trainer at Adelayde fitness studio (MI). In June 2023 he was selected by Ariella Vidach Aiep to take part in a first study on human movement and virtual reality.