This was the final of 4 rounds in 2022 and after 12 months, we can declare the winner of the annual title of "Wedding Photographer Of The Year 2022" (W.P.O.T.Y.) This is the Spanish photographer Fran Ortiz from Granada, with 15 selected photos. Fran finds his inspiration from the moments and people he encounters in weddings, using his skills as a hip-hop dancer and photographer to capture the exact moment.

We want to congratulate all the photographers who seek new and original ways to tell the story of a wedding day. This is one of the most difficult and complicated works in the photography business. Let's think for one minute how complicated it is to capture real moments on a busy day with changing lighting, many people around, and unpredictable events.

ADVERTISEMENT

I am a wedding photographer myself. I was inspired to become a wedding photographer when I discovered it was an artistic field where I could express myself. I was fascinated by the opportunity to tell the story of a couple, to show their uniqueness and beauty.

Every time I work with a couple, I ask them questions about themselves, how they met and what they love most about their partner. This enables me to become like a friend to them and I can better understand their characters and their dreams. I then try to reflect this uniqueness in my photos.

The entries of this competition were judged by three different judges. Each of them considers the composition, the technical quality and the emotion in the photos. Each of the judges can select their favorites. Only photos that are selected by the majority of the judges receive a prize (less than 10% of admitted photos).

The winners receive international recognition, physical prizes such as $500, software, albums, bags and more materials offered by our sponsors (more than 5000€ value). The whole list can be found here.

Nowadays, wedding photography faces the challenge of telling the story of a couple in an honest and original way. In this new era where pictures are omnipresent, wedding photography must find a unique place to be the most important photos in a couple's life and the real challenge is that couples must value all the effort the photographers are doing to preserve the best memories for the next generations.

ADVERTISEMENT