Presentation of two films of the Golden Age of Mexican Cinema, “Bugambilia” and “Pueblerina”, and the screening of the Mexican documentary “Alberto o La metamorfosis Revolucionaria del General Carrera Torres” February 25 and February 27

Texas Border Business

The Consulate of Mexico in McAllen promotes the Mexican Cinema, and its talented filmmakers and artists. This year the Consulate is participating in FESTIBA 2019, organized by UTRGV.

Two of the most representative Mexican golden age films, from Emilio “El indio” Fernández cinema and photographer Gabriel Figueroa: “Bugambilia” (Dolores del Río and Pedro Armendáriz) and “Pueblerina” (Columba Domínguez and Roberto Cañedo) will be shown. Our purpose is to impulse the Mexican Cinema within the RGV community, the talent, and creativity of the great actors of that era, whom are considered legends of acting by many, and the stories that captivated audiences at the end of the 1940s.

Furthermore, the documentary “Alberto o la metamorfosis revolucionaria del General Carrera Torres” will be presented, as well. This film is the winner of two awards at the Festival of Latin Awards of Marbella in Spain (2018), Best Direction and Best Script. It is the story of a revolutionary legend, Alberto Carrera Torres, from Bustamante Tamaulipas, he was the leader of the “Liberation Army of Tamaulipas” at the end of 1910; and during the “Decena Trágica”, rebelled against Victoriano Huerta.

This feature film was written and directed by Roberto Collado Anzaldúa, he will be commenting the documentary during its screening. UTRGV will offer a reception before the presentation of the film.

Movie presentations “Bugambilia” y “Pueblerina”

DATE: MONDAY FEBRUARY 25th.

TIME: 6: 00 P.M.

ADDRESS: Student Union Theater de UTRGV, Edinburg Campus.

1201 W University Dr, Edinburg, TX 78539.

Participants: Consulado of Mexico in McAllen and FESTIBA 2019.

Documentary presentation “Alberto o La metamorfosis Revolucionaria del General Carrera Torres”.

DATE: WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 27th.

TIME: 6: 00 P.M.

ADDRESS: Student Union Theater at UTRGV, Edinburg Campus.

1201 W University Dr, Edinburg, TX 78539.

Participants: Consulate of Mexico in McAllen; Roberto Collado Anzaldúa, Documentary Writer and Director; Dulce Navar, Documentary.