Ilkay Gundogan has added a year to his current deal at Borussia Dortmund. While his new contract -- now valid until 2017 -- kills off speculation for this current transfer window, his long-term commitment to the club is still cloudy. The extension is a decision that has provoked a lot of controversy among BVB fans, but it still might pay off for the club and the player in the long run. Some are happy to see the central midfielder play for another season for the club, while some are fed up with his dealings, as his intention to leave the club in the next transfer window seems inevitable.

Yet again the 24-year-old has to postpone his departure for another year. This same situation happened last summer when he added another year to his contract, which was originally set to expire in 2015. In short, his complicated back injury, that kept him out for 14 months and included a trip to a military hospital in Crimea, did not agree with his career plans.

During Borussia Dortmund's run to the Champions League final in 2013, the central midfielder was the fulcrum of an all-blazing side. Gundogan orchestrated BVB's play with sheer world-class on a very consistent basis and seemed to be unstoppable. The season after was bound to be his last, with an immense payday at the end of it for Borussia Dortmund. But his back injury made him miss almost the entire season of 2013-14, the World Cup and the 2014-15 preseason.

After the long break it was evident that Gundogan would need time to regain his old form. Returning to a very unsettled BVB side proved to be impossible within one season. The German international had the occasional spark of genius, reminiscent of his undeniable class, but he failed to bring any consistency, leaving many Dortmund supporters disappointed in the end.

For some the news of his contract extension may come as a surprise, as Borussia Dortmund announced in April that Gundogan wasn't extending his deal (the one that ran through 2016). Being heavily linked with Manchester United and other prestigious clubs in Europe, his departure seemed to be set in stone, especially after BVB CEO Hans-Joachim Watzke declared that they would sell Gundogan in order to avoid another player leaving as a free agent.

But at the end of June, Gundogan started to backtrack. His uncle and agent gave an interview in the Suddeutsche Zeitung, stating: "Borussia Dortmund is an option again. A lot speaks for Gundogan to find back to his old form in familiar and comfortable surroundings. He spoke with (new Dortmund manager) Thomas Tuchel and is now considering it."

Though his uncle might be right that Borussia Dortmund is the most suitable place for his nephew to rediscover his form, it is hard to believe that the player and his agent came to the sudden realization that it would be the best option to stay for another year at Borussia Dortmund somewhere between April and July. More so, it is another way of saying that the offers did not materialize in the anticipated form -- which is hardly surprising after last season's displays.

It certainly does not agree with Borussia Dortmund's marketing claim of "real love", as real love suggests loyalty; Gundogan is far away from pledging his undying sympathies for the club. It rubs a lot of BVB fans the wrong way, as it is in the nature of most football fans to see their sport in a more romanticized perspective as opposed to the cold reality of football's business end.

But slamming Gundogan for his decision making is hardly justified. With the contract extension all may come out ahead. Borussia Dortmund would have hardly received a fee above €20 million for their playmaker, which would have been an absolute bargain for any buyer considering his potential. After missing out on primary target Johannes Geis, who chose rivals FC Schalke instead, BVB were in bitter need of a suitable defensive midfielder. Considering the options Dortmund had left, keeping the trequartista was probably the best of them.

As for Gundogan himself, it's a sensible choice to fully rehabilitate after his long-term injury, as it would be hard for him to find his way at a new club not being on top of his game. Nuri Sahin stands as a great example of how a dream move to Real Madrid can turn into a nightmare: The Turkish international arrived at the Bernabeu with a knee injury and never found his way. Gundogan didn't have to prolong his contract in order to stay another season, since he could have left the club as a free agent in 2016, but his uncle ruled out a stay without an extension: "It was always clear that Borussia Dortmund would be entitled to a transfer fee as a sign of gratitude to BVB." These are words that might reconcile some Dortmund fans.

Now that there is clarity on Gundogan's imminent future, everyone at Dortmund will hope for the best. If the star player manages to recover to his old form, he will help the club to once again reach the Champions League spots and grant a considerably better pay day in 2016 than it would have been in 2015. Until then, the speculations around Gundogan will continue -- maybe the transfer-ban of FC Barcelona had something to do with his change of heart.