Neil Young transformed the folk-rock CSN into a powerhouse – offering pop idealism (Graham Nash’s “Teach Your Children”), militant blues (David Crosby’s “Almost Cut My Hair”) and vocal-choir gallop (Stephen Stills’ “Carry On”). The achingly plaintive “Helpless” is prime early Young.

~Rollingstone.com

Almost Cut My Hair – Live Wembley 1974:

Wikipedia:

Released March 11, 1970 Recorded July – December, 1969 at Wally Heider’s Studio C, San Francisco and Wally Heider’s Studio III, Los Angeles Genre Rock, folk rock Length 36:24 Label Atlantic Producer Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young

Déjà Vu is the second album by Crosby, Stills & Nash, and their first in the quartet configuration of Crosby, Stills, Nash, & Young. It was released in March of 1970 by Atlantic Records, catalogue SD-7200. It topped the pop album chart for one week and generated three Top 40 singles: “Teach Your Children,” “Our House,” and “Woodstock.” In 2003, the album was placed on Rolling Stone magazine’s list of the 500 greatest albums of all time.

Our House:

Déjà Vu was greatly anticipated after the popularity of the first CSN album and given the addition of Young to the group, who at the time remained largely unknown to the general public. Stills estimates that the album took around 800 hours of studio time to record; this figure may be exaggerated, even though the individual tracks display meticulous attention to detail. The songs, except for “Woodstock”, were recorded as individual sessions by each member, with each contributing whatever was needed that could be agreed upon. Young does not appear on all of the tracks, and drummer Dallas Taylor and bassist Greg Reeves are credited on the cover with their names in slightly smaller typeface. Jerry Garcia plays pedal steel on “Teach Your Children” and John Sebastian plays mouth-harp on the title track.

Teach Your Children – Live Wembley 1974:

In 2003, the album was placed at number 148 on Rolling Stone magazine’s list of the 500 greatest albums of all time.

The same year, the TV network VH1 named Déjà Vu the 61st greatest album of all time.

The album ranked at #14 for the Top 100 Albums of 1970 and #217 overall by Rate Your Music.

Track listing:

Side One:

“Carry On” Stephen Stills 4:26

“Teach Your Children” Graham Nash 2:53

“Almost Cut My Hair” David Crosby 4:31

“Helpless” Neil Young 3:33

“Woodstock” Joni Mitchell 3:54

Side two

“Déjà Vu” David Crosby 4:12

“Our House” Graham Nash 2:59

“4 + 20” Stephen Stills 2:04

“Country Girl (Whiskey Boot Hill/Down Down Down/Country Girl I Think You’re Pretty)” Neil Young 5:11

“Everybody I Love You” Stephen Stills, Neil Young 2:21

Personnel:

David Crosby — vocals, rhythm guitar

Stephen Stills — vocals, lead guitars, guitars, bass, keyboards

Graham Nash — vocals, rhythm guitar, keyboards

Neil Young — vocals, lead and rhythm guitar, keyboards, harmonica

Additional personnel

Dallas Taylor — drums, percussion

Greg Reeves — bass on “Almost Cut My Hair,” “Helpless,” “Woodstock,” “Déjà Vu,” “Country Girl,” and “Everybody I Love You”

Jerry Garcia — pedal steel guitar on “Teach Your Children”

John Sebastian — harmonica on “Déjà Vu”

Production personnel

David Crosby, Stephen Stills, Graham Nash, Neil Young — producers

Bill Halverson — engineer

[Full Album] from youtube:

Spotify:

Other March 11:

Bob Dylan plays Palác kultury – Prague, Czech Republic in 1995.

This was his first concert of his 95-tour.

–

Nina Hagen (born 11 March 1955) is a German singer and actress.

Robert “Bobby” McFerrin, Jr. (born March 11, 1950) is a virtuoso American vocalist and conductor. He is best known for his 1988 hit song “Don’t Worry, Be Happy”. He is a ten-time Grammy Award winner. He is well known for his unique vocal techniques and singing styles.

-Egil