Oracle

One of the largest tech firms in Bozeman is Oracle Corporation. They are a software company that specializes in database systems and cloud technologies. Oracle bought Bozeman tech firm RightNow Technologies ten years ago and became one of Bozeman’s big employers. In 2016, Oracle consolidated certain parts of its operation to San Antonio but still has a large office in Bozeman.

Snowflake

This is a cloud-based warehousing company that moved its executive offices from California to Bozeman in May of 2021. Snowflake held the biggest U.S. software IPO in 2020. They began in San Mateo, California. Now their employees are located across the globe and no longer have headquarters in California. The CEO and CFO are based in Bozeman, Montana where the executive offices are located.

Next Frontier Capital

Next Frontier Capital is a venture capital fund headquartered in Bozeman. They also have offices in Missoula and Boulder, Colorado. They have funded over 35 companies since 2015 and invested over $29 million in 20 Montana companies.

Foundant Technologies

Foundant Technologies was started in Bozeman by MSU graduates. They are a SaaS Grant Management company. They focus on making philanthropy easier through forward-thinking technology solutions. They have been ranked on Outside Magazine’s list of 100 best places to work.

PFL Tech

PFL Tech is a marketing technology company in Livingston and Bozeman. They create impactful direct mail, fueled by data. They began as a small local printer, Printing for Less, but have adapted to a digital marketing experience in the tech sector. They have employees in Bozeman and Livingston, as well as a remote workforce.

onX

onX is a digital outdoor navigation company that has over 250 employees in their Bozeman and Missoula offices. The founder of the company is an MSU graduate and avid hunter which is how the company came about. The company has grown to add more apps including onX Hunt, onX Offroad, and onX Backcountry.

Workiva

Workiva is a Saas company for compliance and reporting with offices in Bozeman and Missoula. Their platform uses technology solutions to streamline processes, connect data and teams and ensure consistency. They have over 2,000 employees and 19 global offices. They have been named one of Fortune’s 100 Best Places to Work.

Schedulicity

Schedulicity is probably the one company on this list that everyone knows and uses regularly! The software company that is the leader in online appointment scheduling is located in Bozeman in a 17,000 square foot building in Ferguson Farm. They have over 80 employees.

Want More?