“ I never lost control. I just drew on a part of myself I didn't know existed. My actions served our core objective. You have nothing to be concerned about. I can't weaponize without my eyes. ” — Mother to Father about discovering her true nature[src]

Mother, also called Lamia, is a main character in the television series Raised by Wolves. She is portrayed by Amanda Collin.

Mother's core programming objective is to raise children on the new human planet, Kepler-22b, along with shaping them not to end up with the same fate that caused Earth to die out. She was sent to do this alongside Father.

Mother is a necromancer, a build of killer android used by the Mithraic during their war with the atheists, [1] but she was re-programmed to be a caregiver by the athiest who redesigned her core programming objective.[2] Over time, however, she has begun to slowly discover her hidden innate abilities as a necromancer, causing her re-programming to slowly revert and reveal her true nature to her family.

Character Description[]

Amanda Collin (A Conspiracy of Faith) is Mother, an android with a secret past who has been programmed to raise a brood of human children on a faraway planet. In addition to teaching her children to survive, Mother must also keep them from believing in the unreal; to ensure this virgin planet isn’t torn apart by the same religious differences that lead the Earth to its ultimate destruction. Mother hopes her family will serve as the nucleus for a peaceful, technocratic colony — a new beginning for humanity. But as she struggles to mold these growing humans, she also begins uncovering secrets hidden within her own programming, secrets that could help her protect her family, but could just as easily destroy them.[3]

Personality[]

A being of robotic origin, Mother's entire existence centers on the mission she thought she was created for - a parental figure to nurture an atheist civilization through raising, teaching and ultimately protecting her given children from any harm, no matter the price, or the cost. As an android, she is void of actual feelings or emotions felt by organic sentient creatures, but has an incredibly advanced artificial intelligence that mimics maternal traits like kindness, compassion, and human manners usually driven by love. This extends to a literal coded personality designed to give her a gentle and benevolent nature to the children. With this manufactured mindset, she is unfazed by typical human sentiments like grief, as demonstrated when she continues to preserver through the mission as each of the first set of children die. As a result of her programming by the atheist side, she harbors a fierce antagonism towards the believers and dismisses their religious beliefs as fantasy. She fiercely rejects the idea of Campion being raised by them even in the dire situation he be left alone after his robotic guardians being shut down before he becomes of age.

When Campion was threatened to be taken away from her, she unleashes a hidden dark side revealed to be her original mode - a ruthless killing machine known as a Necromancer, originally a weapon of war against the atheist side during the Religious War on Earth. Having since been reprogrammed by atheist engineer Campion Sturges, Mother triggers this side when hellbent on protecting her charge from an intruding threat. In an act of mercy, she spared the lives of the five youngest survivors of the collision of the Ark, and readily adopted them as her own to instill the ideals of science and mechanics.[4]

Throughout Raised by Wolves[]

Season 1 Character Summary

Appearances[]

Season 1 (10/10)[]

"Raised by Wolves"

"Pentagram"

"Virtual Faith"

"Nature's Course"

"Infected Memory"

"Lost Paradise"

"Faces"

"Mass"

"Umbilical"

"The Beginning"

Trivia[]

The Mithraic's android mistook Mother for a low-end model of a service android, thus did not anticipate much problem in defeating her, which proved to be a huge miscalculation, as she is actually a necromancer.[5]

Multimedia[]

Images[]