The Missouri general elections are being held across the state on Tuesday, November 4th, 2014.

We know that people like you who are interested in their communities because of their interest in bicycling and walking, vote at a higher rate than average.

So whatever your party, whoever your candidates, whatever your issues, be sure to make a plan, check your voting location, and get out and VOTE on Tuesday, November 4th.

MoBikeFed Voter Guide for the November 4th, 2014, General Election

Finding your polling place and sample ballot

Polling places are open 6am to 7pm on Election Day. You will need some form of ID. More info and FAQ about voting here.

Find your polling place here - lists your polling place with address.

Locate your local election authority's web site, which typically has lists of candidates, ballot initiatives, and sample ballots.

You can vote absentee ballot starting six weeks before the election--though you must have a reason, such as traveling on election day

Information about candidates

Links to websites of candidates for statewide office and Congress

Information about Missouri State House of Representatives Candidates

Information about Missouri State Senate Candidates

Put any state or federal candidate's name into the Project VoteSmart search box to find background, biographical information, and links to the candidate's web site.

November 2014 Ballot Issues

Four statewide ballot issues are up for a vote on November 4th. Find out details and pro/con arguments for each ballot issue on Ballotpedia and the Missouri Secretary of State web site.

Amendment summary--click the name of each amendment for the Ballotpedia page with more information and details about the proposed amendment:

Amendment 2 Criminal Trials Renders prior criminal acts admissible in court during child sexual abuse trials Amendment 3 Labor Implements performance evaluation for teachers tied to pay, raises, etc. Amendment 6 Elections Establishes a six-day-long early voting period Amendment 10 Gov't Finances Prohibits the governor from estimating available state revenues when making budget recommendations under certain legislative circumstances

Local Issues