Tio Plato (ティオ・プラトー) is a major character in Trails from Zero and Trails to Azure.

She is a member of the Crossbell Police Department's Special Support Section as well as the Research Chief of the Epstein Foundation's Crossbell Branch.

Profile[]

Appearance[]

Tio is a petite young woman with blue hair and amber eyes. She wears most of her hair in twintails while leaving some of it down. She wears a mauve colored dress underneath a matching cape. She also wears long black sleeves and stockings, which together with the rest of her outfit possess a gold trim. On her chest she wears the large Aeon System unit, which interfaces with her headband resembling cat ears that glow when using her enhanced 'senses'.

In her appearances in the Cold Steel series, she wears a white coat over her dress instead of her cape, in the same shade as her old friend and former co-worker Randy Orlando. She no longer sports the chest protector but keeps the headband. The gold trim is either replaced with silver or gone completely.

Tio carries an experimental orbal staff consisting of a long slender pole with golden ornaments on top. As an orbal staff tester for the Epstein foundation, Tio has to write general reports on its usage. The staff displays the ability to change form when using different modes and attacks- displaying at least two alternative forms.

Personality[]

Tio is a small and reserved girl. She is very polite at first meeting, but warms up overtime and gives a bit of subtle sass and jokes around alot, teasing her acquaintances.

Tio loves all things cute, and may not always admit it. She has a transcendent love for all things Mishy and is perhaps one of the most devout fans of the franchise, knowing all the lore and watching the performances fervently.

Background[]

Tio was born in Remiferia in S.1190.

In S.1195 she was abducted by the D∴G Cult and became a subject for human experimentation in the lodges that the cult controlled. The lodge she resided in was located in the Calvard Republic, where children like her were experimented on in order to collect data for the cult's drug, Gnosis. Over time Tio began to lose her feelings, as a side effect of the experimentation she had been submitted to. She could not feel anything but pain and fear. Due to the tests for data collection, Tio's senses were enhanced, which allowed her to especially hear more than the average human. Tio was the only successful subject in her lodge, for all the other children could not take the the suffering and high doses of drugs. She could only hear screams and see blood as the rest of the children died at the expense of the demonic experiment. Tio, alongside Renne and Ennea were the only known children that survived in a relatively good mental shape. During the extermination of the cult in S. 1198, she was liberated from the experiments by Guy Bannings who alongside Arios MacLaine and Sergei Lou, successfully infiltrated Tio's lodge and put an end to the D∴G Cult's schemes. After their plans being crushed, the cult all committed suicide to leave no traces of what was to come next. Tio recalls Guy stepping over all the bodies littered on the floor just to reach the only surviving life, herself.

After being hospitalized for half a year, Tio returned home to her parents' place. There she started to display abnormal symptoms as a result of the experiments, causing frictions with her parents and direct environment. She ran away from home and joined the Epstein Foundation at the age of 11 in S.1201.

She worked as part of the Foundation's research team due to her advanced intellect. After reaching 14, she was transferred to Crossbell State in exchange to establish the Police's newest division, the Special Support Section. In truth, she enrolled as Epstein Foundation's tester for the new Orbal staves while researching on the "Aeon System", a link system which is said to enable the “resonance connection of info-processing” between humans and machines.

Trails from/to Zero and Azure[]

Overtime with her new friends, Lloyd, Elie and Randy, Tio solved a variety of cases while confronting her traumatizing past against the D∴G Cult. After the incident, she began to open up more than being the team's techno-operator, but more closely to Lloyd, the younger brother of her savior.

Early Days with the SSS[]

Tio is first introduced as a quiet girl, the youngest member of the SSS, on loan from the Epstein Foundation as part of the Orbal Staff testing program. Despite Lloyd's initial hesitation, she quickly shows maturity beyond her years with her adeptness with combat and technology. Lloyd worries that she’s being forced to work at such a young age when he remembers wanting to do nothing more than play with his friends at her age. But she assures him that she’s working willingly and that she has her own reason to be in Crossbell.

During the SSS’s first case, Tio starts to emerge as a source of knowledge, citing the police database as they work to gather clues. Tio hates being treated like a child, and when the team first meets Chief Roberts, who had been secretly dropping off Orbal Staff upgrades at the Gironde Armory out of fear that he would be bothering her, Tio chastises him, saying she hates the way he dotes over her.

Facing Her Past[]

When investigating the monster attacks in Armorica Village, before heading back to the city, Tio stops after hearing something faint in the distance, and scans the areas with her sensors. After not detecting it again, she nervously apologizes, saying she was probably just hearing things, but to her surprise, the other SSS members take her seriously and ask about the range of her sensors.

Then, during the investigation of the monster attack at St. Ursula Hospital, the team talks to Martha, the head nurse. She recognizes Tio and comments on how beautiful she’s become since she last saw her. Tio is clearly quite disturbed by the encounter and backs away, saying she’ll come visit Martha later. In the hallway, she admits she was admitted to the hospital 6 years prior. Elie gives her a hug, and the SSS encourages her not to let her past get her down, even though she hasn’t shared any of the details. Tio goes on to surprise the team by using her senses to communicate with Zeit, even becoming able to call on him for help in battle.

During the festival, the team gets a call from Jona, who asks them to investigate the hacker, "Kitty". Tio and Lloyd enter Geofront A Block, and Lloyd rescues her in an unusual moment of aloofness. Inside the terminal room, while waiting for Jona, they start with an awkward conversation, with Lloyd trying to break the ice by commenting on Tio’s Mishy strap on her Enigma unit. But Lloyd is shocked when Tio says that the strap was given to her five years ago by Guy Bannings, Lloyd’s older brother. Tio admits that her birthplace is actually Remiferia and not Leman, and Lloyd remembers his last memory of his brother when Guy said he was heading to “escort this cutie back home.” Tio tells Lloyd a bit more of her story, about Guy rescued her, about how she was hospitalized for six months, about how she returned to Crossbell to find him, but learned Guy had passed away. She concludes her story saying that an Epstein Foundation researcher took interest in her by chance, thinking her sensory abilities would be useful, and recruited her to work the Foundation in Leman as part of the Orbal Staff development team. She spent three years as a researcher in Leman before finally returning to Crossbell.

"Rest easy Tio. I know that you can find happiness. And if you have trouble finding it just give me a call. Together we'll send the source of your sadness packing!"—Guy Bannings

Tio mentions that she’s a little different form normal people - she can hear sounds average people could never hear, she can detect the flow of Orbal energy or elements undetectable by technology, and even peoples' emotions and their heartbeats. She was always alone at Sunday School, and the subject of gossip and teasing. And when her presence made her home more and more tense, she realized it would have been better if she had never come home at all. Lloyd asks that Tio let him keep the promise his brother had made to her, about helping her find happiness. Tio finds this interesting and says that Lloyd reminds her of Guy in the way his spirit shines and how he looks forward with confidence. Yet she also encourages him to remember that he is his own person and not to try to equate himself with Guy. To that end, she asks him to find a new promise to make with her that is his own.

Gnosis[]

During the Mainz investigation, the team learns of the missing miner Gantz. Tio started looking distant and distraught throughout this investigation, and when asked she brushed it off saying she was tired from the day of investigating. KeA and various townspeople begin commenting that she didn't seem right. When the team makes it to St. Ursula Hospital to consult with Joachim and they show him the blue pills, Tio becomes more and more pale when he says they remind him of the Gnosis drug, and on their way out of the hospital, she passes out.

Tio wakes up shortly after in Cecil's room surrounded by her worried friends. She insists she tell them her whole story, and she tells them that she was snatched away from her parents when she was five years old and held captive by a religious sect. She said she was held as an “offering” as part rituals for worshipping devils and rejecting Aidios. The particular lodge she was held at was performing ceremonies in the form of human experimentation. Sensors were hooked up to their entire bodies and they were pumped full of drugs in an effort to try to enhance their five senses. They even used hypnosis to try to increase her sensitivity to supernatural phenomena. She went on to say that she might have been the luckiest member in her lodge in a sense - the other children started dying around her and when she was the last one left, her sensory abilities had become strong enough for her to hear the cries of the last victim before her die beyond the walls. Finally, Guy rescued her, the only survivor, debilitated beyond recognition.

As we learned before, Guy escorted her back to Remiferia, promising to help her find her happiness one day. But returning to Crossbell she found that Guy had been killed, yet she wasn’t even sad.

"It's as if in exchange for this power, I had my emotions stripped away."

She admitted she wanted to ask Guy, a man so completely full of happiness and optimism, the answer to the question that eats at her every day - “Why am I alive?” Why was she the one to survive? What was she supposed to do with her broken life? She still doesn’t know the answer. This question becomes an ongoing part of Tio's journey of finding herself that carries throughout the series. Elie gives her a big hug, and the SSS encourages her, saying that no one has the answer to that question, that they all have their own pasts to contend with.

That night, KeA insists on sleeping in Tio's room, and the next morning, Lloyd makes Tio promise not to bottle up her feelings anymore, as it could compromise their mission. Tio has a reaction the first time the team catches a glimpse of the Sun Fort. When the team confronts Joachim in the Sun Fort, Tio faces him showing anger and uncharacteristic emotion, blaming him and chastising him for his role in the cult, and the pain she and others had gone through.

From Zero to Azure - Return to Leman[]

After the SSS solved the cult incident, they returned to Crossbell as heroes. The SSS know that they only succeeded with the help of others and resolve to strengthen themselves. Lloyd receives a personal invitation to train with the First Division, Elie is invited to travel internationally, and Tio struggles with what she ought to do. She finally consults with Chief Roberts, proclaiming that she wants to return to Leman to work more on the Aeon System who reluctantly agrees. Finally, the SSS is temporarily disbanded and Tio returns to the Epstein Foundation headquarters in Leman State.

Return to Crossbell[]

Tio remains working in Leman as the SSS begins to regroup, communicating with the team via the terminal. The night before the Trade Conference, Tio is en route back to Crossbell when Lloyd and the SSS end up trapped in the terminal control room of Geofront B Block by Campanella, forced to beat him at Pomtto to survive. Before the second round of the game, Tio's voice can be heard as she had hacked into the system from outside the room. She defeats Campanella decisively, saving her friends from a firey death, and reunites with them outside the terminal room. The entire SSS, including Chief Sergei and KeA, are delighted that she had returned and thank her for her excellent work.

During the conference, Tio finds herself feeling dizzy after their discussion with Chancellor Osborne. During the raid on Orchis Tower, Tio puts her Aeon System to good use helping to unblock door locks and elevators as the team chases the intruders to the basement.

Following the conference, the team is invited to Michelam by Mariabell for a vacation. Lloyd is distraught after seeing the slaughter carried out by the Red Constellation beneath the Orchis Tower. On the ferry, Tio consoles him, saying that although she herself is probably more used to death than him, that doesn't mean she's nearly as prepared as him to face the barriers in their path. This brings Lloyd out of his slump, and he pets Tio's head as they decide to enjoy their long-awaited vacation together.

When the team is finally able to relax and enjoy the park, Tio is ecstatic about the chance to catch as many glimpses of Mishy as possible. And when she and Lloyd make a wish in front of the mirror in the Castle of Mirrors, she again wishes that she'll one day find her own meaning for being alive.

The Azure-Zero Project[]

Following the train derailment case, the Bracer Guild contacts the SSS, concerned that Lynn and Aeolia (who, incidentally, is a huge fan of Tio and all things cute) have gone missing. Tio, Chief Roberts, and Jona propose using Tio's Aeon System in conjunction with a measurement device to detect the weak signals coming from the bracers' Enigma units. On the rooftop of the Orchis Tower, Tio activates the system in limit break mode and she and Jona are able to pinpoint the location of the missing bracers - the wetlands to the south.

After locating the bracers, the team comes across Campanella, Arianrhod, and F. Novartis, whom Tio recognizes as the author of the Astral Code, used to hack the Orbal Network. Novartis expresses great interest in Tio's past and abilities and attempts to recruit her to join the Society, to which Tio flatly refuses.

After Randy leaves the SSS to take the fight to the Red Constellation in his own hands, the team find him and persuade him to rejoin them. When Randy laments the embarrassing way the team is consoling him, Tio is reminded of her experience after passing out in the hospital, saying that it's a path she had followed once before as well.

After facing Arios in the Mirror Castle, the SSS is captured and Tio is taken to Ursula Hospital and held captive there. After reuniting with Zeit and Wazy and gaining access to the Merkabah, the team approaches the hospital and Zeit detects Tio's presence within. After dispatching the guards at the gate, Tio's voice rings out from within. She runs to Lloyd and hugs him tight, her chest protector slamming into him, in a tearful reunion and a moment of outward emotion we start to see from her more and more.

Tio joins the Merkabah crew working on the bridge. The night before the final battle, Tio receives a letter from her parents. She had left her home in Remiferia as her parents had a difficult time accepting her and her enhanced senses. However, her parents were now worried sick about her, and had come as far as the Crossbell border looking for her after reaching out to the Foundation for information about her. Now that they had come so far together and she had found people who accepted her as she was. Now she finally felt that she was closer to an answer to her question:

"Yes- I am alive. ..How should I live, and for what reason... I felt like I understood the answer to the question I tried asking Guy three years ago. ...And when I read this letter, my real feelings gushed forth like melting ice."

Resistance[]

Following the Imperial annexation of Crossbell in S.1205, Tio once again returned briefly to the Epstein Foundation's headquarters in Leman. For the sake of her former Special Support Section members, however, she returned to Crossbell.

Although she is under constant surveillance of the Intelligence Division, she fulfills the role of chief researcher and "liaison" for parties involved. She regularly exchanges thoughts with other orbal engineers.

Trails of Cold Steel III[]

Tio is introduced to Rean Schwarzer and New Class VII in the new Reinford building in Crossbell (the former IBC) where she is working for the Epstein Foundation, having travelled back to Leman for a while and eventually finding herself promoted to development chief of the Crossbell branch. She is very curious about Valimar and mentions collaborating with Alisa Reinford. She joins the party in an excursion into the Geofront Sector F to fix some glitches with an orbal terminal and witnesses the Magic Knight manifest.

As per her affiliation with the SSS, Tio is being watched by the Intelligence Division and is mostly confined to the RF building. She can still provide help to Rean's group remotely via projecting an image from the terminals to help with the search of Crossbell's spirit veins for where Ouroboros are hiding.

She later travels to Heimdallr during the Summer Festival, and once again offers her assistance. She travels with Agate Crosner via orbal bike to the Gral of Erebos and helps keep the forces outside busy in an effort to stop the Great Twilight.

Trails of Cold Steel IV[]

Following the events of the previous game, Tio was kept hostage with Elise Schwarzer at Thors Branch Campus by students of the Thors Military Academy, although both of them were kept safe.

When Class VII came to rescue her and Elise, they were transferred to Einhel Keep. G. Schmidt allowed Tio to modify the difficulty of "Level X"; she did so with enthusiasm, making it unreasonably difficult. Despite this, they were able to get through and rescue the two of them.

Before the Great War began, Tio went with her former SSS members to Mishelam Wonderland, where she was excited to see a special reserve Mishy show live. Alongside Jingo, she had Jona record the show for them. Jona then complained about having to record a children's mascot show, causing Tio to threaten him by leaking his past onto the orbal network if he ruined her day.

When the war started, Tio accompanied her SSS colleagues to assault one of the five Salt Pales powering Tuatha De Danann. She later attended the wedding of Olivert Reise Arnor and Scherazard Harvey.

Trails into Reverie[]

Tio reunites with the other members of the SSS and helps storm the Orchis Tower to oust the remnants of the Imperial Defence force. She later assist the SSS in various support requests around the city in preparation for the re-independence ceremony, as well as several celebrations to commemorate their reunion together and full return. She is scattered with the others when they are unsuccessful in fending off Supreme Leader Rufus Albarea.

Tio later reconvenes with Lloyd's party and travels with him meeting up with Roberts, Jona, Agate, and Tita and they decide to investigate the Reinford military factory to find Professor F. Novartis. They face archaisms with advanced technology and discover the facility has been heavily modified. After reaching the interior of the facility, they confront Novartis and a simulacrum of McBurn and later escape the burning factory.

Tio is present for the retaking of Crossbell and the subsequent assault on the Retributive Tower to stop Elysium and Keraunos. She helps link Lapis Rosenberg to the system in order to delete the program.

Character Notes[]

Trails of Cold Steel III[]

Trails of Cold Steel IV[]

Trails into Reverie[]

Gameplay[]

Base Stats[]

Crafts[]

Weapons[]

Orbment[]

Link Abilities[]

Brave Order[]

Trails of Cold Steel III and IV[]

Name BP Effect Aeon Shield

エイオンシールド 4 Absolute Reflect (4 turns)

CP+80

Gallery[]

Trails from Zero[]

Trails to Azure[]

Trails of Cold Steel II[]

Trails of Cold Steel III[]

Trails of Cold Steel IV[]

Trails into Reverie[]

Akatsuki no Kiseki[]

The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel: Northern War[]

Other Media[]

Trivia[]

Tio is one of two playable characters in Trails of Cold Steel III who does not have an S-Craft, the other being Tita Russell.

"Tio" translates to the number "Ten" in Swedish.

"Tio Plato" translates to "Uncle Plate" in Spanish.

According to Estelle during their first meeting, she giggled about her and Lloyd's names being the same as her friend's name home in Liberl

Tio appeared as a collectible character in the gacha game Mega Miracle Force to promote 'Trails into Reverie'.

References[]

Characters Playable Lloyd Bannings - Elie MacDowell - Tio Plato - Randy Orlando - Wazy Hemisphere - Noel Seeker - Alex Dudley - Yin - Estelle Bright - Joshua Bright Major Alex Dudley - Arios MacLaine - Cecile Neues - Dieter Crois - Ernest Reis - Estelle Bright - Fran Seeker - Garcia Rossi - Grace Lynn - Guy Bannings - Henry MacDowell - Ian Grimwood - Joachim Guenter - Joshua Bright - KeA - Marconi - Mariabell Crois - Renne Hayworth - Rixia Mao - Sergei Lou - Yin - Zeit Minor Abbas - Bennet - Cao Lee - Chaco - Clarice Seeker - Colin Hayworth - Eugene - Harold Hayworth - Hartmann - Ilya Platiere - Imelda - Jona Sacred - Joerg Rosenberg - Kate - Kilika Rouran - Lau - Lechter Arundel - Michel - Mireille - Oscar - Pierre - Plie - Roberts - Shanshan - Shizuku MacLaine - Sonya Baelz - Sophia Hayworth - Sully Atraid - Theodor - Wald Wales - Wendy Locations Crossbell Ancient Battlefield (Sun Fort) - Armorica Village - Bellguard Gate - Crossbell Cathedral - East Crossbell Highway - Mainz (Mine) - Mainz Mountain Path - Mishelam (Mishelam Wonderland) - Moon Temple - Old Armorica Road - Rosenberg Studio - St. Ursula Medical College - Stargazer's Tower - Tangram Gate - Ursula Road - West Crossbell Highway Crossbell City Administrative District (CPD) - Back Alley (Revache & Co.) - Central Square (SSS - Times - Genten) - Downtown District - East Street - Entertainment District (Arc en Ciel) - Geofront (A Sector - B Sector) - Harbor District (IBC - Heiyue - CNS) - Residential District - Station Street (Station) - West Street Erebonia Garrelia Fortress Gameplay Terminology Bracer Guild - Crossbell Police Department - Crossbell Times - D∴G Cult - Enigma - Gnosis - Heiyue - Holy Beast - Orbment - Ouroboros - Revache - Red Constellation - Septian Church - Septium - Special Support Section - Zemurian Ore - Zephyr Mechanics Action Time Battle - Battle Evaluation - Bonding (Details) - Combat Mechanics - Combat Orbment - Combo Craft - Craft - Fishing - Orbal Art - Quartz - S-Craft - Status Effects - Support Craft - Clock Memories Lists Achievements - Armor - Books - Chests - Crafts - Enemies - Fish - Fishing Equipment - Fishing Spots - Orbal Arts - Quartz - Quests - Recipes - Rewards - Shops - Weapons - Credits Illustrations Types Character Artwork - Concept Art - Official Artwork - Screenshots - Visuals Music Albums Original Sound Track - Evolution Original Soundtrack - Super Arrange Songs Way of Life

Characters Playable Lloyd Bannings - Elie MacDowell - Tio Plato - Randy Orlando - Noel Seeker - Wazy Hemisphere - Rixia Mao - Alex Dudley - Arios MacLaine - Garcia Rossi Major Arianrhod - Campanella - Cecile Neues - Dieter Crois - F. Novartis - Fran Seeker - Grace Lynn - Guy Bannings - Henry MacDowell - Ian Grimwood - Jona Sacred - KeA - Mariabell Crois - Sergei Lou - Shirley Orlando - Shizuku MacLaine - Sigmund Orlando - Wald Wales - Zeit Minor Abbas - Bennet - Cao Lee - Chaco - Clarice Seeker - Colin Hayworth - Duke Cayenne - Ernest Reis - Estelle Bright - Garcia Rossi - Giliath Osborne - Harold Hayworth - Hartmann - Harvard Fisher - Ilya Platiere - Joerg Rosenberg - Joshua Bright - Julia Schwarz - Kate - Kevin Graham - Kilika Rouran - Klaudia von Auslese - Lau - Lechter Arundel - Marcel Nielsen - Michael Gideon - Michel - Mireille - Minneth - Mueller Vander - Olivert Reise Arnor - Oscar - Ozma Seeker - Renne Bright - Ries Argent - Roberts - Samuel Rocksmith - Shanshan - Sonya Baelz - Sophia Hayworth - Sully Atraid - Wendy - William Lakelord - Xin Lu Locations Crossbell Ancient Battlefield (Sun Fort) - Armorica Village - Bellguard Gate - Boathouse - Crossbell Cathedral - Crossbell Police Academy - East Crossbell Highway - Knox Forest - Knox Forest Road - Mainz (Mine - Old Mine) - Mainz Mountain Path - Mishelam (Mishelam Wonderland - Castle of Mirrors) - Moon Temple - Old Armorica Road - Rosenberg Studio - St. Ursula Medical College - Stargazer's Tower - Tangram Gate - Ursula Road - West Crossbell Highway - Wetlands - Azure Tree (Domain of Passion - Domain of Vanity - Domain of Fate - Domain of Penance - The Farthest End) - World of Zero/World of Ein Sof Crossbell City Administrative District (CPD) - Back Alley - Central Square (SSS - Times - Genten) - Downtown District - East Street - Entertainment District (Arc en Ciel) - Geofront (B Sector - C Sector - D Sector) - Harbor District (IBC - Heiyue - CNS) - Orchis Tower - Residential District - Station Street (Station) - West Street - Thaumaturgical Sector Erebonia Garrelia Fortress Calvard Altair (Altair Lodge) Gameplay Terminology Bracer Guild - Crossbell Times - Cryptid - D∴G Cult - Enigma - Heiyue - Holy Beast - Orbment - Ouroboros - Pleroma Grass - Red Constellation - Salt Pale - Sept-Terrion - Septian Church - Septium - Special Support Section - Stigma - Zemurian Ore - Zephyr Mechanics Action Time Battle - Battle Evaluation - Bonding (Details) - Burst - Combat Mechanics - Combat Orbment - Combo Craft - Craft - Fishing - Master Quartz - Orbal Art - Pom! Pom! Party! - Quartz - S-Craft - Status Effects - Support Craft - Clock Memories Lists Achievements - Armor - Books - Car Items - Chests - Crafts - Enemies - Fish - Fishing Equipment - Fishing Spots - Master Quartz - Orbal Arts - Quartz - Quests - Recipes - Rewards - Shops - Weapons - Trails in the Chest, Part 2 - Credits Illustrations Types Character Artwork - Concept Art - Official Artwork - Screenshots - Visuals Music Albums Original Sound Track - Evolution Original Soundtrack Songs "Aoi Kiseki" - "Aoki Negai" (EVO OP)

Characters Playable Rean Schwarzer (Valimar) - Juna Crawford - Kurt Vander - Altina Orion - Musse Egret - Ash Carbide - Alisa Reinford - Elliot Craig - Laura S. Arseid - Machias Regnitz - Emma Millstein - Jusis Albarea - Fie Claussell - Gaius Worzel - Millium Orion - Sara Valestein - Claire Rieveldt - Agate Crosner - Tio Plato - Sharon Kreuger - Olivier Lenheim - Angelica Rogner - Aurelia Le Guin - Tita Russell - Lechter Arundel Major Alfin Reise Arnor - Arianrhod (Argreion) - Azure Siegfried/Crow Armbrust (Ordine) - Black Alberich - Campanella - Carl Regnitz - Cedric Reise Arnor (Testa-Rossa) - Celine - Duvalie - Ennea - Elise Schwarzer - Fernand Hyarms - G. Schmidt - George Nome - Giliath Osborne (Ishmelga) - Ines - Irina Reinford - Leonidas - McBurn - Major Michael - Patrick T. Hyarms - Randy Orlando - Roselia Millstein - Rosine - Rufus Albarea - Rutger Claussell (Zector) - Shirley Orlando - Thomas Lysander - Toval Randonneur - Towa Herschel - Victor S. Arseid - Vita Clotilde - Wallace Bardias - Xeno Minor Ada Grant - Alan - Annabelle - Aurier Vander - Barkhorn - Beatrix - Becky - Bennet - Celestin - Chaco - Cody MacMillan - Crawford Family - Dorothee - Eugent Reise Arnor III - Ferris Florald - Franky - Freddy - Fritz Geithner - Gareth - Gustaf - Gwyn Reinford - Herschel Family - Hugo Kleist - Jessica Schleiden - Jingo - Josette Capua - Kate - Kairi - Kenneth Lakelord - Lau - Leonora - Linde - Lina Crawford - Louise - Matteus Vander - Maya - Miguel - Mint - Munk - Neithardt - Olaf Craig - Oscar - Pablo - Patiry - Priscilla Reise Arnor - Reiner - Sandy - Shanshan - Sidney - Stark - Suzanne Egret - Tatiana - Theodore Egret - Valerie - Vivi - Wayne - Wendy - Wilhelm Ballad - Xin Lu Locations - Erebonia Heimdallr Surroundings Heimdallr (Airport - Catacombs (Dark Dragon's Nest) - Dreichels Plaza - Leica District - Racecourse Plaza - Sankt District - Vainqueur Street - Vesta Street - Underground) - Himmel Cemetery - Karel Imperial Villa (Gral of Erebos) - Leeves - South Ostia Highway - Thors Branch Campus (Einhel Keep) - West Ostia Highway Lamare Province Auros Coastal Road - Bryonia Island - Juno Naval Fortress - Languedoc Canyon - North Languedoc Canyon Road - Ordis - Raquel - Rock Patio - West Lamare Highway - West Languedoc Canyon Road Sutherland Province Dreknor Fortress - Hamel - Hamel Road - Isthmia Great Forest - North Sutherland Highway - Old Agria Road - Parm - Parm Byroad - Saint-Arkh - South Sutherland Highway - West Sutherland Highway Crossbell Province Crossbell City (Central Square - East Street - Geofront (B Sector - F Sector) - Harbor District - Station Street - West Street) - Stargazer's Tower - Ursula Road - West Crossbell Highway Other Courageous - Derfflinger Gameplay Terminology Artifact - Awakener - Black Records - Black Workshop - Crossbell Times - Class VII - Cryptid - D∴G Cult - Divine Knight - Dominion - Erebonian Civil War - Erebonian Curse - Gnomes - Great One - Great Twilight Plan - Heiyue - Hercules - Hexen Clan - Holy Beast - Magic Knight - Nidhoggr - Noble Alliance - Northern Jaegers - Northern War - Orbment - Order of the Moonlight Horse - Ouroboros - Panzer Soldat - Pleroma Grass - Phantasmal Blaze Plan - Reformist Faction - Red Constellation - Round of Seven - Salt Pale - Sept-Terrion - Septian Church - Septium - Silver Whales - War of the Lions - Zephyr Mechanics Action Time Battle - Battle Evaluation - Bonding (Details) - Brave Order - Break - Combat Link - Combat Mechanics - Combat Orbment - Craft - EX Orb - Fishing - Master Quartz - Mech Battles - Orbal Art - Quartz - S-Craft - Status Effects - Vantage Masters Lists Armor - Books - Brave Orders - Character Profiles - Chests - Crafts - Enemies - EX Orbs - Fish - Fishing Equipment - Fishing Spots - Master Quartz - Orbal Arts - Quartz - Quests - Recipes - Rewards - Shops - Trophies - Weapons Illustrations Types Character Artwork - Concept Art - Key Visuals - Screenshots - Visuals - Sen no Kiseki III Official Visual Collection Music Albums Sen No Kiseki III: Original Soundtrack Songs "Beyond The Journey" - "Nageki no Refrain"

Characters Playable Rean Schwarzer (Valimar) - Alisa Reinford - Agate Crosner - Altina Orion - Angelica Rogner - Ash Carbide - Aurelia Le Guin - Celine - Crow Armbrust (Ordine) - Duvalie - Elie MacDowell - Elliot Craig - Emma Millstein - Ennea - Estelle Bright - Fie Claussell - Gaius Worzel - George Nome - Ines - Juna Crawford - Joshua Bright - Jusis Albarea - Kurt Vander - Laura S. Arseid - Leonidas - Lloyd Bannings - Machias Regnitz - Musse Egret - Renne Bright - Randy Orlando - Roselia - Sara Valestein - Severing Chains Kreuger - Tio Plato - Tita Russell - Toval Randonneur - Victor S. Arseid - Vita Clotilde - Xeno Major* Alfin Reise Arnor* - Arianrhod (Argreion) - Black Alberich - Bleublanc - Campanella - Carl Regnitz - Cassius Bright - Cedric Reise Arnor (Testa-Rossa) - Claire Rieveldt* - Elise Schwarzer* - Fernand Hyarms - G. Schmidt - Gilbert Stein - Giliath Osborne (Ishmelga & the Great One) - Irina Reinford - KeA Bannings* - Klaudia von Auslese - Lechter Arundel* - Michael Irving - Mariabell Crois - McBurn - Millium Orion* - Mueller Vander - Olivert Reise Arnor* - Rosine - Rufus Albarea (El-Prado) - Rutger Claussell (Zector) - Scherazard Harvey* - Shirley Orlando - Thomas Lysander - Towa Herschel* - Vandyck - Wallace Bardias Minor Ada Grant - Alan - Albert von Bartholomeus - Annabelle - Anton - Aurier Vander - Becky - Bennet - Beryl - Bridget - Cao Lee - Cecile Neues - Celestin - Chaco - Clarice Seeker - Cody MacMillan - Crawford Family - Diana - Dorothee - Edel - Emily - Eugent Reise Arnor III - Ferris Florald - Fiona Craig - Franky - Fritz Geithner - Freddy - Gareth - Grace Lynn - Gustaf - Gwyn Reinford - Herschel Family - Hugo Kleist - Jessica Schleiden - Jingo - Jona Sacred - Josette Capua - Kaela MacMillan - Kai - Kairi - Kate - Kenneth Lakelord - Lau - Leonora - Linde - Lucy Seiland - Louise - Marcel Nielsen - Maya - Miguel - Mint - Munk - Neithardt - Olaf Craig - Oscar - Pablo - Patrick T. Hyarms - Patiry - Priscilla Reise Arnor - Reiner - Rex - Samuel Rocksmith - Sandy - Shanshan - Sully Atraid - Tatiana - Theresia - Tilia - Valerie - Vincent Florald - Vivi - Wayne - Wendy - Wilhelm Ballad - Xin Lu - Zechs Vander Locations - Erebonia Imperial Government controlled Heimdallr Lamare Province Alster - Avon Hills - Bryonia Island (Sol Shrine) - Leeves - Milsante (Lake Gala) - Ordis - Osgiliath Basin (Tuatha de Danann) - Raquel Sutherland Province Eryn (Eerie Woods - Saint-Gral Labyrinth) - Hamel - Isthmia Great Forest - Parm - Saint-Arkh Crossbell Province Crossbell City - Mishelam - St. Ursula Medical College Locations - Other Unknown Black Workshop - Celestial Globe Gameplay Terminology Ark Rouge - Artifact - Awakener - Black Records - Black Workshop - Class VII - Crossbell Times - Cryptid - D∴G Cult - Divine Knight - Dominion - Erebonian Curse - Gnomes - Great One - Great Twilight Plan - Great War - Heiyue - Hercules - Hexen Clan - Holy Beast - Lost Zem - Nidhoggr - Northern Jaegers - Northern War - Orbment - Order of the Moonlight Horse - Ouroboros - Panzer Soldat - Phantasmal Blaze Plan - Pleroma Grass - Red Constellation - Reformist Faction - Round of Seven - Salt Pale - Sept-Terrion - Septian Church - Septium - Seventy-Seven Devils - Silver Whales - The Gardens - War of the Lions - Weissland Army - Zauber Soldat - Zephyr Mechanics Abnormal Status - Battle Order Bonus - Bonding (Details) - Brave Order - Combat Link - Combat Orbment - Craft - Enhanced - Master Quartz - Orbal Art - Pom! Pom! Party! - Quartz - S-Craft - Vantage Masters Lists Books - Brave Orders - Character Profiles - Chests - Crafts - Credits - Enemies - EX Orbs - Fish - Master Quartz - Orbal Arts - Quartz - Quests - Recipes - Trophies - Weapons Illustrations Types Character Artwork - Concept Art - Key Visuals - Official Artwork - Screenshots - Sen no Kiseki IV Official Visual Collection Music Albums Sen no Kiseki IV -The End of Saga- Original Soundtrack Songs "Ashita e no Kiseki" - "Ai no Uta"

Characters That debut in 'The Day of Reindependence' route Playable Lloyd Bannings - Elie MacDowell - Tio Plato - Randy Orlando - Noel Seeker - Wazy Hemisphere - Rixia Mao - Lechter Arundel - Tita Russell - Agate Crosner - Alisa Reinford - Sharon Kreuger - Estelle Bright - Joshua Bright - Machias Regnitz - Towa Herschel Major Alex Dudley - Aeolia - Bennet - Cao Lee - Cecile Neues - Clarice Seeker - Dieter Crois - Fran Seeker - F. Novartis - Garcia Rossi - Grace Lynn - Henry MacDowell - Ilya Platiere - Jona Sacred - Kate - KeA Bannings - Lynn - Michel - Mireille - Oscar - Roberts - Rufus Albarea - Scott - Sergei Lou - Shanshan - Shizuku MacLaine - Sonya Baelz - Sully Atraid - Wald Wales - Zeit Characters that debut in the 'Lost Symbol' route Playable Rean Schwarzer - Juna Crawford - Kurt Vander - Altina Orion - Musse Egret - Ash Carbide - Claire Rieveldt - Elliot Craig - Elise Schwarzer - Jusis Albarea - Millium Orion - Crow Armbrust - Emma Millstein - Fie Claussell - Gaius Worzel - Sara Valestein - Laura S. Arseid - Celine Major Carl Regnitz - G. Schmidt - Matteus Vander - Aurier Vander - Dalton - Dorothee - Edel - Emily - Lina Crawford - Lucia Schwarzer - Teo Schwarzer - Thoma Worzel - Worzel Family - Zeit Characters that debut in the 'Hermit' route Playable C - Lapis Rosenberg - Nadia Rayne - Swin Abel - Renne Bright - Duvalie - Arios MacLaine Major Emperor - Ian Grimwood - Imelda – Jingo - Zeit - Zoa Balor Characters – True Reverie Corridor, Daydreams & Trails to Walk Playable Angelica Rogner - Alfin Reise Arnor - Aurelia Le Guin - George Nome - Olivert Reise Arnor & Scherazard Harvey - Roselia - Toval Randonneur - Victor S. Arseid - Vita Clotilde – McBurn - Cedric Reise Arnor* - Freddy* Major Beryl - Campanella - Erika Russell - Ennea - Grandmaster - Great One and Ishmelga - Ines - Isara Irving - Ishmelga Rean - Klaudia von Auslese - Lucy Seiland – Mariabell Crois - Michael Irving - Minneth - Mueller Vander - Priscilla Reise Arnor - Reiner - Roy Gramheart - Sandy - Scarlet - Shirley Orlando - Tatiana - Vincent Florald - Wilhelm Ballad - Zechs Vander Locations Crossbell Ancient Battlefield - Armorica Village - Crossbell City (Central Square - Administrative District - Entertainment District (Arc en Ciel) - Harbor District - Orchis Tower - West Street) - Geofront - Mishelam (Mishelam Wonderland) - Retributive Tower Erebonia Heimdallr (Dreichels Plaza - Leica District - Mater Park) - Himmel Cemetery - Leeves (Thors Branch Campus) - Juno Naval Fortress - Ymir - Eryn Nord Highlands Nomadic Settlement - Zender Gate Other Celestial Globe - True Reverie Corridor - Glorious - Calvard (Aramis Academy, Longlai) Gameplay Minigames Banana Boat - Magical Alisa's Love Shot - Pom! Pom! Party! - Project Tyrfing - Vantage Masters - Watermelon Splitting - Who Wants to Be a Mirannaire? Play at Your Own Beryl Terminology Almata - Archer Shunran - Artifact - Class VII - Crossbell Times - D∴G Cult - Elysium (Simulacrum) - Erebonian Curse - Great One - Great War - Heiyue - Hexen Clan - Holy Beast - Ikaruga - Orbments - Order of the Moonlight Horse - Ouroboros (Anguis, Enforcer) - Red Constellation - Septian Church (Dominion, Gralsritter) - Sept-Terrion - Septium - Seventy-Seven Devils - The Gardens - Zephyr Mechanics Abnormal Status - Battle Order Bonuses - Brave Order - Combat Link - Combat Orbments - Crafts - Master Quartz - Orbal Arts - Quartz - S-Crafts - United Front Lists Armor - Books - Brave Orders - Character Profiles - Chests - Crafts - Enemies - Fish - Fishing Equipment - Fishing Spots - Master Quartz - Orbal Arts - Quartz - Recipes - Rewards - Shops - Trophies - Weapons Illustrations Types Character Artwork - Concept Art - Key Visuals - Official Artwork - Screenshots - Hajimari no Kiseki Official Visual Collection Music Albums Hajimari No Kiseki Original Soundtrack Songs No End No World