Questacon wins at the Australian Tourism Awards

Questacon – The National Science and Technology Centre was recognised for exceptional tourism products and services at the 2016 Australian Tourism Awards in Darwin.

Questacon won the Tourist Attractions category, recognising its significant commitment to tourism in Australia through the Canberra and Capital region.

Acting Questacon Director Kate Driver said, “National recognition of our business testifies to the dynamic and innovative work of Questacon contributing to the Canberra region visitor economy and also nationally through our science engagement activities that excite, inspire and speak to all Australians.”

“We are proud of our science engagement to be recognised alongside vibrant Australian tourism businesses,” said Ms Driver.

Questacon delivers dynamic experiences for visitors, showcasing new exhibitions and programmes to mark significant happenings in science, such as National Science Week and raising awareness of international initiatives including the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.

Ms Driver said, “We promote the tourism visitor economy by providing a unique experience for people visiting Canberra seeking hands-on discovery coupled with exceptional customer service.”

Questacon is proud to be embedded in the ACT visitor economy, contributing to the more than four million tourists visiting the region and more than $1.62 billion injected into the ACT economy each year. “The experience visitors have at Questacon complements the rich offering tourists to Canberra have and supports and enhances initiatives to drive visitation to Canberra,” said Ms Driver who also congratulated fellow award recipients and thanked award sponsors.

Questacon’s iconic National Science and Technology Centre in the Parliamentary Zone is one of Canberra’s leading attractions, welcoming over 480,000 tourists annually.

Each year, Questacon reaches more than three million people through a range of inspirational experiences designed to excite and motivate across two facilities in Canberra.

Questacon’s second facility, The Ian Potter Foundation Technology Learning Centre, offers school and holiday workshops and is the hub for Questacon’s national programmes and travelling exhibitions.