The crowd didn't know what to expect as they gathered on a spring evening near Fountain Square in downtown Cincinnati.

In the wake of World War I, they lived in a world transformed from the one their parents knew. Movies and records allowed for the mass production of entertainment and pop culture.

Now those assembled in the heart of town waited for the latest leap in leisure.

They stared at an amplifier affixed to the third floor of the Milnor Electric Company. Many were skeptical it would even work, The Enquirer reported.

At 7:30 p.m. on March 23, 1922, a baritone voice crackled through the speaker, bouncing off the buildings.

"This is WLW, Cincinnati, Ohio."

The owner of the voice is lost to time. Other voices on that first night's broadcast were familiar. Then-Cincinnati Mayor George Carrel gave a brief address, where he discussed the "problem of taxation" and predicted the Reds would win the pennant (they finished in second place), followed by musical performances.

For the past century, WLW has not stopped reverberating in the homes and businesses of Cincinnati. Instead of the orchestral music, soap operas and country jamborees that WLW listeners heard in the 1920s-1950s, it's talk radio, news, a lot of politics and sports.

WLW's story captures the evolution of media and pop culture over the past 100 years. WLW's personalities hope it will tell the story of the next 100 years.

Cincinnatians still turn to 700 AM on the radio dial more than almost every other station. It consistently is ranked in the top two in the Nielsen ratings.

For an AM station, that's unusual.

For December and January, at least 10% of Cincinnati's radio listening audience were tuned to the "Big One," trailing only classic rock station WGRR on the FM dial by 1 or 2 percentage points, according to Nielsen.

The audience is mostly men: 72% in 2021, Nielsen Audio Cincinnati ratings showed. Only about 2% of the listeners were Black.

Talk radio audiences historically are predominantly older, white and male. Nationwide, the largest segment for talk radio is 65 and older, according to the Radio Advertising Bureau.

Only Chicago, San Francisco and Puerto Rico have an AM station ranked in the top two in their markets among the 40 largest markets in the United States in December and January, according to Nielsen.

None of them had as large a share of the market as WLW.

"Cincinnati is a weird town when it comes to brand loyalty," said Mike Martini, a Cincinnati broadcaster with WMKV. Martini serves as president of Media Heritage, a nonprofit museum and local radio archive housed at the Voice of America museum in West Chester. "You still buy ivory soap. When Cincinnati Bell changes its name, my parents go nuts."

WLW isn't the most powerful station in the country anymore like it was in the 1930s when 500,000 watts coursed through its transmitter. The federal government won't allow any station that amount of power anymore.

WLW still blasts its signal at the highest allowed wattage the government allows for AM stations, 50,000 watts. It's one of two 50,000 watt stations in Cincinnati, the other being 1530 WCKY-AM.

On clear nights, you can still pick up WLW's signal in 38 states, as far away as Colorado.

Even the end of the world wouldn't take WLW off the air – at least for two months.

In 2018, the Federal Emergency Management Agency chose WLW as the second of 77 radio stations across the country to build a reinforced trailer designed to withstand natural and manmade disasters.

The bunker in Mason near WLW's antennae also has rations and supplies to allow WLW to remain on the air for 60 days to relay crucial information.

The WLW of today is much different than the one 100 years ago, or even 30 years ago.

While WLW remains at or near the top in the ratings, it doesn't mean everyone in the city likes the station. For the past 30 years, WLW, and talk radio as a whole, has increasingly focused on politics.

WLW's talk shows are divisive, said civil rights leader Rev. Damon Lynch III. That's not to say he hates WLW. He used to fill in for hosts Bill Cunningham and Mike McConnell in the 1990s. Cunningham asked Lynch to say a prayer at his wife's swearing-in ceremony as a judge.

"I don’t think it has helped bring the city together," Lynch said of WLW's political shows. "I don’t think it’s been positive in dealing with racial issues in our city."

Critics over the years have called WLW's programming inflammatory. In 2001 after police and protesters clashed downtown, then-Cincinnati Mayor Charlie Luken didn't mince words when he talked with WLW host Jim Scott.

"Some of the people on your station, and other stations, engage in rhetoric that incites people," Luken said at the time.

The station drew the ire of the Hispanic Chamber USA and League of United Latin American Citizens in 2007 with a billboard depicting a donkey, Mexican flag and Man in a sombrero with the caption "The Big Juan." That's a play on the station's nickname the "Big One."

The station apologized and removed the billboard.

Perhaps no one has drawn more controversy than Cunningham, an attorney who started behind WLW's microphone in 1983. Media Matters for America, which describes itself as a progressive media watchdog, has labeled him a "fringe radio host" and a purveyor of "hate speech."

Cunningham is no longer in the crosshairs, but that's because Media Matters believe he is less influential than he once was and his rhetoric is less charged, the president of Media Matters for America Angelo Carusone told The Enquirer.

Cunningham acted as sort of an unofficial adviser to President Donald Trump. He later slammed Trump for inciting the Jan. 6, 2021 riot at the Capitol.

When he started, radio personalities were told to avoid politics, he said.

"In the first several years, beginning in 1983 to 1990, you didn’t have people yelling at everybody," Cunningham said.

Some WLW personalities past and present credited Rush Limbaugh in the early 1990s for turning the medium more to politics.

Cunningham also said he noticed a change after the 9/11 attacks when people became "more serious," Cunningham said.

While that may be true, Cunningham attracted controversy early on in his career.

A 1991 feature in the Dayton Daily News dubbed him the "Prince of Controversy." That was when Cunningham hosted an evening show.

Cunningham described this time as being like "commandos of the airwaves."

"I did some TV shows in New York with Geraldo Rivera and it was like shock and awe," he said. "It was saying things that could not be said. It was sexually orientated quite a bit."

Does talk radio share responsibility for the current divisiveness and spread of misinformation? Cunningham described talk radio as informative and "hopefully entertaining."

Cunningham instead blames cable news. Unlike cable news, people can call into his show, Cunningham argued.

"Talk radio allows different individuals with different viewpoints to have equal access to the medium," Cunningham said. "When you take calls, you don't know what someone is going to say."

Cunningham did have a daytime TV talk show on the CW network for five years until 2016. But that show wasn't political, with shows titled "Lady, You're Crazy If You Think That's My Baby" and "I'm An Online Honey, I Do It For The Money."

Cunningham plans to stay behind the booth for another "year or two." He said he hopes he was informative and entertaining. But he knows when he retires, he won't be as universally liked as former Reds Hall of Fame announcer Marty Brennaman or former WLW morning host Jim Scott.

"I don't know anybody who says, you know what, I really don't like Marty Brennaman. I've never had someone say to me, you know, I really I don't like Jim Scott," Cunningham said. "One of my regrets is, I've not been able to do what I do without engendering a whole bunch of people that really don't like me."

WLW program director Scott Reinhart said WLW reflects the community. Reinhart and others at WLW said they try to strike a balance between being educational and entertaining. Reinhart said they also try to get multiple sources and perspectives on the radio.

"How do we reflect back what the community is feeling?" Reinhart said. "It's just paying attention ...You have to really listen to the community when you're out."

WLW's current talk radio format began in the 1980s. Prior to that, the station played a lot of music, had some farm programming and sports. WLW has broadcast Reds games since 1971.

By the early 1980s, WLW was ailing, losing $3 million a year, according to Randy Michaels, who at the time was a young executive from Taft Broadcasting.

In 1983, Michaels led a group of business leaders that had just bought WLW. Michaels at the time proclaimed he would teach the "grand old lady to dance."

"If you love radio, you gotta love that signal," Michaels said. "That's a station that back in the day, they didn't buy equipment. They built their own. I loved that."

Michaels knew an AM station couldn't compete with FM for music. WLW needed to go all-talk, news and sports. People wanted news in the mornings and entertainment in the evenings, he said.

At the time, a young on-air talent named Gary Burbank hosted the morning show playing music and doing comedy bits. Michaels moved him to the afternoon and allowed Burbank to expand his comedy routines.

The routines over the next three decades flourished with an extensive cast of characters that became household names: Syndicated redneck commentator Earl Pitts, radio preacher Rev. Deuteronomy Skaggs, newscaster Dan Buckles and the eccentric and clueless Gilbert Gnarley. He made sure to spell it out G-N-A-R-L-E-Y to unsuspecting victims.

For the mornings, Michaels brought over Jim Scott to host a morning news program. Scott had hosted a morning show on rival 1360 WSAI-AM.

The station slowly began to phase out music. It worked. Within three years, the station went from losing $3 million a year to making "several million," Michaels said.

"There was never a day listeners heard a huge change," Michaels said. "It just shifted from a disc jockey driven station ... to high impact, high content, lots of news, lots of sports and in the afternoon lots of fun."

WLW's success stretches back long before Michaels.

Michaels, and the other WLW personalities The Enquirer interviewed for this story, loved to rattle off a list of the luminaries that have graced WLW's airwaves. Those who work there are proud to be part of the radio lineage that includes comedian Red Skelton, actress Doris Day, talk show host Ruth Lyons, singer Rosemary Clooney, "Twilight Zone" creator Rod Serling, radio host Gary Burbank, Cris Collinsworth, Bob Trumpy and on and on.

For much of its history, WLW was a mix of comedy, soap operas, live music and whatever else its stable of performers, writers and executives could think of.

It was also a destination for celebrities.

In the 1970s, Bob Hope was a frequent guest at the studio, said Tom Horan. The sales executive is the longest-tenured employee there, working at the station for 50 years.

"We jokingly refer to Cincinnati as Mayberry," Horan said. "For being in Mayberry, a lot of important successful people have passed through this radio station in 100 years."

When it comes to WLW's status in radio history, it's not a question of why but who.

The "who" is founder Powel Crosley Jr., a tall, lanky inventor from College Hill.

“I like to call him a combination of Edison and P.T. Barnum," said Jack Dominic, executive director of the National Voice of America Museum of Broadcasting in West Chester. "He really understood marketing.”

Crosley was born in 1886. His first passion was automobiles. And while he did eventually make automobiles and car parts, it was radio where he made his name.

When his son in 1921 asked him for a radio, the $100 price tag shocked Crosley. He knew he could build one cheaper. And he did for $20.

He began broadcasting from his home. On March 2, the U.S. Department of Commerce assigned him the call letters WLW. WLW was the 62nd commercial station in the country at the time.

Crosley became the largest manufacturer of affordable radios in the country in the 1920s, earning him the moniker "The Henry Ford" of radio.

Crosley realized he needed something to play on his radios.

So in 1924, WLW became the first radio station in the country to hire a program director, Dominic said.

"People don't buy radios. People buy entertainment," Dominic said. "I need to invest in talent and programming. Once the novelty wears off, oh it's a new gizmo, you're not going to sell any."

The station, even at lower wattage of 5,000 in 1925 and 50,000 in 1928 could be picked up all over the country. WLW began calling itself the "Nation's Station" in 1928.

Crosley's relentless promotion of the station led to WLW becoming the most powerful in the country within a decade.

He convinced the federal government that Cincinnati's central location made it ideal to take the station to 500,000 watts. Crosley argued if the most powerful station in the country was allowed in New York, half the signal would be lost across the Atlantic Ocean, Martini said.

WLW, on the other hand, could reach both the East Coast and the rural Midwest.

So in May 1934, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt pushed a gold key on his desk in the White House to turn on WLW's 500,000-watt transmitter.

There's no way to overstate how big, literally and figuratively, this was at the time, Martini said. With 75% of the country living in rural areas, many people didn't have easy access to theaters, newspapers and other sources of entertainment and information, Martini said.

"My grandfather lived in Delhi," Martini said, referring to what is now a suburban township just west of Cincinnati. "Back then, it was pretty rural. You still had dirt roads. He would talk all the time just how important radio was back in the 1930s, reaching out to all these places that didn't have entertainment."

As a result, WLW ramped up its rural programming. Renfro Valley Barn Dance and Midwestern Hayride became staples. They had farm reports and tips on crops.

Across the street from WLW's massive diamond-shaped antennae tower in Mason, the station opened Everybody's Farm. It was a working farm with livestock and crops. It was also the setting for country programming as well as a community gathering place.

It wasn't just farm reports. WLW tried to be everything to everyone. The station had its own orchestra, actors, announcers. They performed in an ornate, art deco studio in Crosley's factory building in Camp Washington. The building still stands, vacant and crumbling.

Soap operas, classical music, pop music, news, game shows and variety acts all found a home on WLW. WLW's first soap opera, "Ma Perkins" debuted in 1933 and was sponsored by Procter & Gamble, makers of Ivory soap, hence the name soap opera.

In 1939, the Federal Communications Commission did not renew WLW's license for 500,000 watts. The exceptionally strong signal drew complaints from other stations.

WLW has operated at 50,000 watts ever since.

As the United States entered World War 11 in 1941, Roosevelt called on Crosley to help spread America's message overseas.

Crosley in 1938 already had built a shortwave transmitter in Mason to broadcast overseas as a separate station, WLWO. It could be heard throughout Europe in France, Germany, Italy and had separate programming in each country's language.

At the government's request, he built a 200,000-watt transmitter in what is now West Chester Township to broadcast Voice of America broadcasts to Europe. Adolf Hitler reportedly referred to the broadcasts as "those Cincinnati liars."

The Voice of America building closed in 1998 and is now a museum devoted to Crosley.

Crosley died in 1961. Since then WLW has broadcast under a series of different owners, including Jacor, Clear Channel and now iHeartMedia. The studios moved from downtown to Mount Adams to its current location in a nondescript but spacious office building in Sycamore Township.

Up until the 1980s, WLW kept a variety format. It was burdened by its history, Martini said. As other stations in the 1950s moved toward formats, i.e., old standards, rock 'n' roll, jazz, WLW still tried to be everything to everyone, Martini said.

And now, thanks to the Internet, WLW can broadcast further than it ever did even at the height of its power in the 1930s.

People from all over the world can listen through the iHeartRadio app or as on-demand podcasts. About 20% of WLW's listenership is through the app.

Exactly what's planned for the 100th, station managers have kept close to the vest. There's a contest for five listeners to win a chance to sit in with their favorite radio host on March 23.

The 100th will likely be more subdued than the 50th anniversary. The station held a lavish banquet at the famed Beverly Hills Supper Club in Southgate, Ky. in 1972, said Horan, the only current employee with WLW who was there. There was a large ice sculpture with WLW's logo. Serling, now famous for the "Twilight Zone," was brought back as the guest of honor.

As for the next 100 years? WLW program manager Scott Reinhart envisions at some point, cars will just have free wifi. But that's years don't the road.

"We're just not there," Reinhart said. "There's always going to be a need for a transmitter."

Reinhart said it's their responsibility to make sure there'll be another 100 years of WLW.