Scotland’s international airports – Aberdeen, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Glasgow Prestwick and Inverness – are all served by flights from a growing number of European and long haul destinations.

Many European airport hubs also provide fantastic onward connections to Scotland, including airports in London, Amsterdam, Paris, Madrid, Reykjavik and Frankfurt.

Fly direct to Scotland from North America

Air Canada rouge

Air Transat

American Airlines

Delta

Norwegian

United

Virgin Atlantic

WestJet

Services by British Airways, KLM, Icelandair, WOW Air and Air France – amongst others – fly to many main European hubs, which can then be used for onward travel to Scotland.

From New York (Newark) to Edinburgh and Glasgow with United

From New York (JFK) to Edinburgh with Delta

From New York (JFK) to Glasgow with Delta

From Chicago to Edinburgh with United

From Orlando to Glasgow with Virgin Atlantic

From Philadelphia to Edinburgh with American Airlines

From Washington DC area (Dulles Airport) to Edinburgh with United

From Boston (Logan International Airport) to Edinburgh with Delta

From Toronto to Glasgow with Air Transat and Air Canada rouge

From Toronto to Edinburgh with Air Canada rouge

From Calgary and Vancouver to Glasgow with Air Transat

From Halifax to Glasgow with WestJet

Please note; some of the above flights are operational on a seasonal service. Please check with the individual airlines.

Scotland’s international airports enjoy excellent year-round air links with most European and Scandinavian countries.

Direct access to Scotland is continuously improving with Lufthansa announcing an extension of its Glasgow Munich service to year round from October and Eurowings now flying from Munich to Edinburgh while Ryanair also extended its network with new routes from Baden, Hamburg and a direct route from Frankfurt International into Scotland, bookable from September 2017. Arrivals directly into the heart of the Highlands have also been further facilitated, with KLM now operating connections to Inverness, twice daily via Amsterdam.

There are also seasonal flights from Sumburgh Airport in Shetland to Bergen in Norway, and from Inverness Airport to Geneva in Switzerland.

The best way to find the most competitive fares for flying to Scotland is to search on comparison sites such as Skyscanner, Expedia, Cheapflights, Globehunters, GoEuro and DiscountMyFlights.

From Marseille to Glasgow with Easyjet from 29 June 2016

With Vueling:

Paris Orly to Edinburgh from 29 March 2016 – 3 times a week – year round

Alicante – Edinburgh from 16 June 2016 – 3 times a week – year round

Roma Fiumicino – Edinburgh from 29 March 2016 – 3 times a week – year round

For those flying to Scotland via a connecting airport in Europe, the major European hubs are London Heathrow, Paris Charles de Gaulle, Reykjavik-Keflavik Airport, Frankfurt am Maine, Amsterdam Schipol and Madrid Barajas airports.

The best way to get to Scotland from Australasia is to fly via the Middle Eastern hubs.

The easiest way to get to Scotland from Asia and Africa is to travel via airport hubs in Europe or the Middle East.

The major European hubs are London Heathrow, Paris Charles de Gaulle, Frankfurt am Maine, Amsterdam Schipol and Madrid Barajas airports.

Those travelling from South America are best to travel via the European hubs, whereas routes from Central America also fly via US hubs.

Direct ferry services run between Scotland and Northern Ireland or you can travel from a number of European countries to ports in England, which are all just a short drive, train ride or bus journey away from Scotland.

You can find information on timetables, ferry operators and make bookings at Ferrysavers.

From Rotterdam and Zeebrugge to Hull with P&O Ferries (Hull is around four hours’ drive from the Scottish border).

From Amsterdam to Newcastle with DFDS Seaways (Newcastle is just over an hour’s drive from the Scottish border).

Eurotunnel from Paris to London

And then from London to Edinburgh

Or Caledonian Sleeper from London to Edinburgh