End-of-day quote National Stock Exchange of Australia

Other stock markets

2022-05-18 5-day change 1st Jan Change 0.5700 AUD -1.72% -.--% -.--%

3

Listed companies

1

Private companies

11

Insiders

Relation chart of related listed companies: Kemao Industries Limited

Active Relations

Past Relations

Related listed companies: Kemao Industries Limited

Active Relations

Past Relations

Relationship chart for related private companies: Kemao Industries Limited

Active Relations

Past Relations

Related private companies: Kemao Industries Limited

Jiangsu Kemao New Materials Technology Co. Ltd.

Active Relations

Past Relations

Connection statistics

Active

Inactive

Listed companies

Private companies

Activities of related companies

Electrical Products1Precious Metals1Other Metals/Minerals1

Countries of related companies

Australia3 China1

Kemao Industries Limited is an Australia-based professional metal packaging solution provider. The Company specializes in the production and supply of tinplate and cold-rolled steel coils to the global market. It operates through the sale of the electrolytic tinplate products segment. The Company’s products include Laminated Tinplate, Printed Tinplate, Tinplate Sheets and Tinplate Coils. Its tinplate is applicable and supplied to customers in diverse industries. It is mainly used as food and beverage cans, general line cans, paint cans, aerosols, tea cans, battery casing, engine oil filters and office appliances. Its cold-rolled steel coils as a semifinished material are widely supplied to other steel further processing industries, such as construction, automotive, household electronic appliances, furniture, machinery hardware, and others. The Company’s production base and manufacturing center is located in the Jiangsu Province of China.

Employees

0

Sector

Iron & Steel

More about the company

Best financial

portal

+951% of historical

performance

More than 20 years

at your side

+ 1,000,000

members

Quick & easy

cancellation

Our Experts

are here for you

OUR EXPERTS ARE HERE FOR YOU

Monday - Friday 9am-12pm / 2pm-6pm GMT + 1