Robert “Bob” Anthony DeRose, 75, of Lewes, passed away at home surrounded by loved ones Saturday, Jan. 6, 2024. He was born Sept. 4, 1948, in Brooklyn, N.Y., the third of seven children in a strict Italian Catholic household in the Bensonhurst neighborhood.

He had a passion for the culinary arts, and gained experience in both the front and back of the house in restaurants throughout high school and college.

In his youth, Bob played high school football and enjoyed taking the subway to Coney Island and the beach. He was known for his humor, strong opinions, and thirst for knowledge, Jeopardy being his favorite TV show.

After graduating from Lafayette High School, Bob earned a bachelor’s degree in food science from Pratt Institute (now Pratt University). He was drafted into the Army from 1969-70, where he saw active combat in Vietnam. Unfortunately, his exposure to Agent Orange during his service led to long-term health complications, and his full disability was recognized by the VA at the end of his life.

He was a dedicated father, and devoted husband and caretaker to his late wife Sharon, who was a breast cancer survivor for 24 years. They had a storied life living in Long Island, Mass., Brooklyn, and finally in Westfield, N.J., where they put down roots and raised their family together. Upon her passing in 2010, Bob retired and later was briefly remarried to Jane Burton, a lovely woman with whom he relocated to Lewes to live near the beach.

Bob had a great love for Hawaiian shirts and all kinds of music from classical to show tunes to rock and roll. His gruff demeanor belied a generous heart. His authentic white beard made him the perfect volunteer as Santa Claus for the Salvation Army, earning him the nickname Uncle Santa among his nieces and nephews. He also had a soft spot for rescue dogs, especially his beloved canine companion, Kelso, a certified therapy dog.

During his retirement, Bob enjoyed riding his motorcycle, taking his convertible to the beach, making pizza for friends and traveling extensively across the world. He continued his volunteer work, driving for Meals on Wheels, reading to preschool children for ReadAloud Delaware, and acting as a mentor to at-risk veterans in the Sussex County Veterans Treatment Court program.

Professionally, Bob was a registered dietitian with a lifelong career in food service and hospitality management. He worked primarily for hospitals and nursing homes, starting his career at the Bronx VA hospital in 1971. He later joined Saga, which became part of Marriott and then Sodexo, where he retired after over a quarter-century of service.

Bob is survived by his sons, Philip DeRose and wife Jessica DeRose, and Gregory DeRose and partner Jennifer Marshall. He was a loving grandfather to Julian and Paxton DeRose. Bob is also survived by his brothers, Ralph, Richard and John DeRose; sisters, Joanne and Mary DeRose; as well as several beloved nieces, nephews, and in-laws. He was preceded in death by his wife, Sharon (Rothman) DeRose; and sister, Diane DeRose.

He was truly one of a kind. Although there is a Bob-size hole in our hearts and the universe, his legacy lives on with the beautiful moments he created and shared with friends and family.

A memorial service will be announced for friends and family in the coming months.

The family appreciates all the love and support during this difficult time.