Manfred Kurzer of Germany has won gold in the 10 metre running target shooting at the Athens Games but will not be able to defend his title because the event is being axed as part of a drive to trim the Olympics.

Diana Igaly, a 39-year-old bookbinder from Budapest, won gold for Hungary in the day's other shooting final, the women's skeet.

Igaly is the daughter of two keen shooters and hunters who named her after the Roman goddess of hunting.

Kurzer's event, in which shooters fire air rifles at targets moving along a channel 10 metres away, is being axed from the Olympic shooting program along with the women's double trap.

Kurzer, a 34-year-old who has devoted most of his adult life to shooting, said he still hoped for a reprieve for the competition but would have to be ready for the worst.

"I'll prepare for the fact that it's going to be abolished," he said.

"Maybe I'll have to go out and work."

The women in the double trap, shooting at two clay targets fired into the air, should be able to switch to other similar events but the men's running target is more specialist, said Horst Schreiber of world shooting's governing body.

"It's very difficult for the running target shooters to do something else," said Schreiber, secretary-general of the International Shooting Sport Federation.

Kurzer held on to win with 682.4 points ahead of Russians Alexander Blinov and Dimitri Lykin despite two low-scoring shots in a final he said showed why the event belonged at the Games.

"It should stay in because it's full of suspense," he told reporters, to applause from his fellow medallists.

Igaly won the women's skeet with a flawless performance in the final, hitting every one of 25 bright orange targets flying across the hilltop shooting range.

Roared on by a large Hungarian contingent in the crowd, the Sydney bronze medallist was never seriously threatened by her rivals.

China's Wei Ning won silver after a shoot-off with Zemfira Meftakhetdinova of Azerbaijan, who won bronze.

Igaly said the support from the stands had been a big boost.

"I arrived here with my confidence not at its highest as I'd struggled in international competitions this year," she said.