THE BUTTERFLY EFFECT

Quirky, sometimes gorgeous thriller score

A review by JAMES SOUTHALL

A moderately ambitious science fiction thriller, The Butterfly Effect arrived on these shores with little fanfare and left shortly thereafter, but it was surprisingly successful in America. First-time directors Eric Bress and J. Mackye Gruber also wrote this story about a man who is able to return to his childhood self and prevent some tragic events from occuring, but every time he does so and returns to the present he must face the unexpected consequences of the timeline having been changed. OK, so Back to the Future did it years ago, but this time there's certainly a few more twists and turns, and it's more adult material.

The first-time directors also ended up collaborating with a first-time composer. Despite them being long-time friends, they didn't even recommend Michael Suby to the studio - by a curious twist of fate, they recommended him to his friends! It's his first major score, and quite an auspicious one. The opening theme is very beautiful, a melody led by strings and piano with solo wordless female voice as well - a great way to start the score and album. The score as a whole is somewhat eclectic, frequently evoking Thomas Newman, but often going off in whole new original directions too. Suby attempted to come up with a different sound for each of the different realities in the film while still maintaining some consistency, which he pulled off well.

Some of the music is surprisingly touching and emotional for a film of this type ("Kayleigh's Funeral" is superb, and "Kayleigh Loves Lenny" isn't far behind), while elsewhere Suby employs an array of effects - both orchestral and electronic - which add layers of mystery and, sometimes, horror to proceedings. He achieves this by creating an intriguing soundscape which hits just the right level of tension while (mostly) retaining melodic attraction. The influence of Thomas Newman is plain to see, from the seemingly effortlessly enchanting piano solos - a great staple of many of Newman's best scores - through the dazzling array of unusual percussion instruments on show. There's even time for some action music, the best example of which is probably "Prison Escape", which evokes David Shire of all people. The opening theme is reprised in the closing track for a particularly satisfying conclusion. This is a well above-average thriller score from a little-known composer; it's a welcome release from La-La Land, who do seem to be specialising in releasing fine music by composers you wouldn't necessarily expect to see being released on album. Recommended.

Buy this CD from amazon.com by clicking here!