International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement

The International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement is an international humanitarian movement with approximately 97 million volunteers, members and staff worldwide which was founded to protect human life and health, to ensure respect for all human beings, and to prevent and alleviate human suffering, without any discrimination based on nationality, race, sexual orientation, sex, gender identity, religious beliefs, class, allegiance, or political opinions.

Cimetière des Rois

The Cimetière des Rois or Cimetière de Plainpalais, is a cemetery in Geneva, Switzerland, where John Calvin, Jorge Luis Borges, Sérgio Vieira de Mello, and Jean Piaget (the noted developmental psychologist and epistemologist) are buried. Humphry Davy, Alberto Ginastera, Griselidis Real and Alice Rivaz are also buried there.

Palace of Nations

The Palais des Nations (English: Palace of Nations) in Geneva, Switzerland, was built between 1929 and 1936 to serve as the headquarters of the League of Nations. It has served as the home of the United Nations Office at Geneva since 1946 when the Secretary General of the UN signed a Headquarters Agreement with the Swiss authorities, although Switzerland did not become a member of the UN until 2002.

Arve

The Arve river flows for approximately 100 km (62 miles) through France, in the département of Haute-Savoie, and (for a few kilometers) in Switzerland. It is a left tributary of the Rhône. Rising in the Graian Alps, close to the Swiss border, it receives water from the many glaciers of the Chamonix valley before flowing north-west into the Rhône on the west side of Geneva, where its much higher level of silt brings forth a striking contrast between the two rivers.

Servette

Servette is a district of the city of Geneva, Switzerland. The district's name comes from the Latin word for forest, silva, and means "little forest". Its name alludes to Servette's rural past, before Geneva grew beyond its walls and incorporated the area.

Genève-Cornavin railway station

Genève-Cornavin (also known as Gare de Cornavin and signed simply as Genève) is Geneva's main railway station, located in the centre of the city. The immediate area surrounding it is known as Cornavin; both names can be used interchangeably to refer to each other. The station has over 230 train arrivals and departures every day, 4 ticket counters and 6 ticket machines.

Grand Théâtre de Genève

Grand Théâtre de Genève is an opera house in Geneva, Switzerland. As with many other opera houses, the Grand Théâtre de Genève is both a venue and an institution. The venue is a majestic building, towering over Place Neuve, officially opened in 1876, partly destroyed by fire in 1951 and reopened in 1962, after extensive refurbishments, which houses the largest stage in Switzerland.

Charmilles Stadium

Charmilles Stadium was a multi-purpose stadium in Geneva, Switzerland. It was used mostly for football matches, and was the home venue for Servette FC. The stadium was able to hold 9,250 people and was built in 1930 for the Coupe des Nations 1930 tournament. During the 1954 FIFA World Cup the stadium hosted five games. It was closed in 2002 before Stade de Genève opened.

United Nations Office at Geneva

The United Nations Office at Geneva (UNOG) is the second-largest of the four major office sites of the United Nations. It is located in the Palais des Nations building constructed for the League of Nations between 1929 and 1938 at Geneva in Switzerland, and expanded in the early 1950s and late 1960s.

Patinoire des Vernets

Patinoire des Vernets is an arena in Geneva, Switzerland. It is primarily used for ice hockey and is the home arena of Genève-Servette HC. opened in 1958, it has a seating capacity for 7,285 people. The arena hosted the 1962 FIBA Champions Cup final in which Dynamo Tbilisi of Georgia defeated Real Madrid 90-83. The 1976 and 1984 finals of the same competition was also hosted at the arena. The arena also hosted the 1991 cup winners cup final.

Reformation Wall

The International Monument to the Reformation, usually known as the Reformation Wall, is a monument in Geneva, Switzerland. It honours many of the main individuals, events, and documents of the Protestant Reformation by depicting them in statues and bas-reliefs. The Wall is in the grounds of the University of Geneva, which was founded by John Calvin, and was built to commemorate the 400th anniversary of Calvin's birth and the 350th anniversary of the university's establishment.

Les Délices

Les Délices, or "The Delights", was a Geneva home of Voltaire, a French Enlightenment writer and philosopher. Voltaire moved to Les Délices in January 1755, having purchased a life interest in the estate. Being a foreigner, he could not buy the house directly.

International Red Cross and Red Crescent Museum

The International Red Cross and Red Crescent Museum, also known simply as the International Red Cross Museum, is a museum located in Geneva, Switzerland.

Conservatoire de Musique de Genève

The Conservatoire de musique de Genève is a music school in Geneva, Switzerland. Founded by François Bartholoni in 1835. This conservatory is the oldest music education institution in Switzerland and one of the oldest conservatory in Europe. Franz Liszt has taught at this conservatory during the first year of its history. The Geneva International Music Competition was founded in 1939 (the first international competition) in this Conservatory.

Institut de Finance et Management

IFM University - Institute of Finance and Management is an international private university located in the heart of the city of Geneva in Switzerland. Since 1971, the University IFM trains future leaders, executives or business leaders. The university concentrates on excellence, professionalism and experience and adds usability and personalization to its courses.

Broken Chair

Broken Chair is a monumental sculpture in wood by the Swiss artist Daniel Berset, constructed by the carpenter Louis Genève. It is constructed of 5.5 tons of wood and is 12 metres (39 feet) high. It depicts a giant chair with a broken leg and stands across the street from the Palace of Nations, in Geneva. It symbolises opposition to land mines and cluster bombs, and acts as a reminder to politicians and others visiting Geneva.

Geneva Mosque

The Geneva Mosque was constructed in 1978 in the neighbourhood Le Petit-Saconnex in Geneva, Switzerland. The mosque was inaugurated by the Saudi Arabian King Khalid ibn Abd al-Aziz and President of the Swiss Confederation Willi Ritschard and is the greatest mosque in Switzerland. The building has space for 1,500 worshippers. The Imam of the mosque is Yahya Basalamah.

Victoria Hall (Geneva)

The Victoria Hall is a concert hall located in downtown Geneva, Switzerland. It was built in 1891–1894 by the architect John Camoletti and financed by the consul of England, Daniel Fitzgerald Packenham Barton, who dedicated it to Queen Victoria and gave it to the city of Geneva. Currently, the Victoria Hall is mostly used for classical music performances.

Centre William Rappard

The Centre William Rappard at Rue de Lausanne 154, Geneva, Switzerland, was built between 1923 and 1926 to house the International Labour Office (ILO). It was the first building in Geneva designed to house an international organization.

Musée Rath

The Musée Rath is an art museum in Geneva, used exclusively for temporary exhibitions. It is the oldest purpose-built art museum in Switzerland. It is located on Place Neuve, in front of the old city walls, next to the Grand Théâtre and near the Conservatoire de Musique. The museum was built between 1824 and 1826 by the architect Samuel Vaucher on behalf of the Société des arts.

Musée Ariana

The Musée Ariana, also known as the Musée suisse de la céramique et du verre (Swiss Museum of Ceramics and Glass), is a museum in Geneva, Switzerland. It is devoted to ceramic and glass artwork, and contains around 20,000 objects from the last 1,200 years, representing the historic, geographic, artistic and technological breadth of glass and ceramic manufacture during this time. The collection is the only one of its kind in Switzerland.

Institut et Musée Voltaire

The Institut et Musée Voltaire is a museum in Geneva dedicated to the life and works of Voltaire. The museum is housed in Les Délices, which was Voltaire's home from 1755 until 1760. The property was bought by the city of Geneva in 1929, and the museum opened in 1952, founded by Theodore Besterman. It contains about 25,000 volumes on Voltaire and the 18th century as well as a collection of paintings and prints from the period, many depicting Voltaire, his relatives and acquaintances.

Beth Yaakov Synagogue

The Beth Yaakov Synagogue is located in the heart of the city of Geneva. It has also been known as the Grande Synagogue. It was built between 1858 and 1859 for the Ashkenzai Jewish community, which was about 200 people during the creation of the Synagogue.

Geneva University of Music

The Geneva University of Music (French: Haute école de musique de Genève HEM) is a higher music education institution in Geneva, Switzerland.

Brunswick Monument

The Brunswick Monument is a mausoleum built in 1879 in Geneva, Switzerland to commemorate the life of Charles II, Duke of Brunswick (1804 - 1873). He bequeathed his fortune to the city of Geneva in exchange for a monument to be built in his name, specifying that it be a replica of the Scaliger Tombs in Verona, Italy.