Akintunde Olumideko

For those of us who knew Wale Babalakin in school – Government College Ibadan- the positive outcome his life is playing out is not unexpected. This is because everything had been ordained before the foundation of the world! My association with Wale predated our meeting at the GCI where we were both Griersons i.e. members of Grier House. Unknown to both of us, we were also students of the Sacred Heart Private School, Ring Road Ibadan, then one of the major ‘ajebota’ primary schools in Ibadan! My classmates at the Sacred Heart included Tola Ajala, Segun Koya and Biyi Oloko among others. Wale was our senior at ‘Sacred Heart’ but we did not meet again until I gained admission to Government College Ibadan in 1973.

Wale gained admission to the GCI in 1971 and with other boys commenced a five-year sojourn within the confines of that great institution of learning. The GCI was a model secondary school for boys in the then Western Region/State and the school was known for excellent academic and moral standards. It also had a solid reputation. Indeed, in our days, most boys who graduated from primary schools desired to attend the GCI. Nevertheless, the school would qualify as an ‘equaliser’ for the school does not discriminate against one’s background in instilling discipline into its students. Even if you were the son of the president or governor, you would serve the prescribed punishment for any act of misdemeanour.

Wale was among the youngest in Grier House for the 1971 intake. The others, if my memory serves me right included Wole Adebayo, an economist and businessman as well as Femi Olutoye, a retired air commodore and medical doctor. However, he (Wale) shocked everyone by coming first at the house test organised for his set and by so doing claimed the Banjo Prize for 1971!

It is apposite to say something about the house test in order to put his feat in proper perspective. Every ‘common entrance’ intake into class one in the GCI was assigned a house and in my time, there were five houses to wit: Carr, Field, Grier, Powell and Swanston. Once you were assigned to a house, the next important assignment of your school life was to be given a school teacher – teur – whose responsibility it was to properly integrate you into your school family, coach you with respect to the GCI customs, mores and traditions as well as prepare you for the house test. Wale’s teur was Taiwo Ogunbunmi, now late, and he coached him so well that he ‘dusted’ all comers at the house test!

He sat for the West African School Certificate Examination in 1975 and though GCI result was generally good that year, he performed below average. Methinks that was the ‘shock treatment’ he needed to turn a new leaf. He definitely came to ‘his own’ and from then on became ‘unconquerable’. He left the GCI for the Ibadan Polytechnic from where he gained admission to the University of Lagos to study Law and was subsequently called into the Nigerian Bar in 1981. Subsequently, he earned his Master’s and Doctorate degrees at the Cambridge University. He could jolly well have remained abroad, after all, unknown to many, Wale is also a British citizen having been born in the United Kingdom! No wonder, his other name is ‘Olatokunbo’!

After his education in Cambridge, he chose to return to his fatherland and served his National Youth Service Corps programme. After a year’s tutelage at Chief Rotimi Williams’s Chambers, he took the bold step to establish his law firm – Babalakin & Co in the ‘heart’ of Lagos.

It is noteworthy that Wale became a Senior Advocate of Nigeria in 2002 thus becoming the second GCI Old Boy to attain the rank.

Additionally, Wale has made giant strides in the area of business culminating in the private public partnership arrangement he put together for the rehabilitation of the burnt Ikeja Airport now known as Murtala Muhammed Airport 2 (MMA-2).

Related News

This feat has yet to be replicated by anybody.

Furthermore, it is in the area of philanthropy that Wale in my opinion has made the greatest impact, yet he is quite conservative about discussing it. In spite of his personal avowal not to join any social club, he chose to become a member of Sigma Club because of its philanthropic ideals. Sigma Club is a social and philanthropic organisation founded in 1950 by undergraduates of the University of Ibadan. Unknown to him (Wale), the first Sigma Chief i.e. old Chief Nelson Olojede and the second Sigma chief i.e old Chief (Professor) Eugene Olufemi Odunjo were GCI Old Boys. Besides, one of the founding fathers of Sigma Club i.e. the late Ambassador Leslie Harriman and the oldest living old Sigmite i.e. Kabiyesi, Alayeluwa (Oba), Major – General Olufemi Olutoye, the Alani of Ido-Ani Kingdom are also GCI Old Boys. Nevertheless, since Wale joined Sigma Club in 2006, he and his friend, a co – Sigmite – Professor Gbolahan Elias, SAN qualify as the greatest benefactors of the Club and its sister organisation, the Sigma Educational Foundation.

In concluding, I must state that the GCI has been blessed in having Wale as an Old Boy.

Two years ago, he was elected National President of the GCI Old Boys Association and since then, he has been deploying his financial wherewithal towards ensuring that the GCI is restored to the glorious days. Twenty-five years ago, in commemoration of his thirty-fifth birthday, a lecture was organised in his honour. However, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the celebration this year is likely to be subdued. Nevertheless, once the pandemic is over, I expect the drums to start rolling at least for the next one year! The birthdays of some individuals cannot be celebrated in one day!

It only remains for me to wish him a happy birthday and many more years of distinguished service to humanity.

​​​Olumideko, a public relations specialist, contributed this piece from Ibadan.

Copyright PUNCH.

All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.