BAGHDAD, Iraq, Nov. 18 The commanding general of the United States Army division that patrols much of Iraq's western borders with Syria, Jordan and Saudi Arabia said Tuesday that his men had encountered only a handful of foreign fighters trying to sneak into the country to attack American and allied forces.

"I want to underscore that most of the attacks on our forces are by former regime loyalists and other Iraqis, not foreign forces," said the officer, Maj. Gen. Charles H. Swannack Jr., commander of the 82nd Airborne Division.

His view was echoed by Maj. Gen. David H. Petraeus, commander of the 101st Airborne Division, which controls northern Iraq and parts of its borders with Syria, Turkey and Iran.

During a briefing on Monday for a member of the Iraqi Governing Council, he said that since May, his men had captured perhaps 20 foreign fighters trying to slip into the country from those three countries.

During a period in which border patrols have been intensified and new technology is being used, that number suggests only modest foreign incursions into Iraq, in contrast to estimates by the Bush administration.

In Washington late last month, officials estimated the number of foreign fighters in Iraq at 1,000 to 3,000, and the White House has been suggesting that foreign fighters are continuing to enter the country and are behind many of the attacks, linking the war in Iraq to the global campaign against terror.

In a news conference on Oct. 28, President Bush said: "We are mindful of the fact that some might want to come into Iraq to attack and to create conditions of fear and chaos. The foreign terrorists are trying to create conditions of fear and retreat because they fear a free and peaceful state in the midst of a part of the world where terror has found recruits."

During a news briefing on Tuesday evening, General Swannack, who took over the region two months ago, said his men had captured 13 foreign guerrillas and killed 7 others. Ten days ago, Col. David A. Teeples, who is part of General Swannack's command, said only a small number of the foreigners were among the 500 to 600 people his forces had captured in attacks on coalition forces.

American efforts to prevent attacks continued Tuesday, when American fighter jets bombed suspected guerrilla positions near Tikrit, in central Iraq. Commanders called in AC-130 gunships, A-10 attack planes and Apache helicopter gunships, as well as Air Force F-16 and F-15E fighter-bombers with 500-pound bombs, the military said, in the largest bombardment in the area since President Bush declared the end of major combat on May 1.

In Baghdad on Tuesday night, the military said it had fired heavy artillery at a suspected insurgent position.

In Washington, a military official disclosed that the Army's Fourth Infantry Division had destroyed a house that belonged to Gen. Izzat Ibrahim, one of Saddam Hussein's closest aides, who American officials believe is playing a significant role in the insurgency. It is not yet known whether General Ibrahim was inside when a satellite-guided missile destroyed his home, about 10 miles southwest of Tikrit, Mr. Hussein's ancestral home, the official said.

But the strike illustrated what military officials said was a new twist to their counterinsurgency campaign: attack bomb-making factories, weapons warehouses, guerrilla meeting places and insurgents' homes with no warning, using high-altitude bombing or long-range missile strikes. Officials indicated that it was clear the general's house was being used as a meeting place.

"This approach gives us more tactical surprise," a military official said. "They're still using houses and neighborhoods, but we've been removing sanctuaries and keeping them off balance."

Without speaking of those operations specifically, General Swannack said the stepped-up offensive "demonstrates our resolve, and we are not going to fight this one with one hand tied behind our backs." Echoing a historical quote from the British military, the general said the Army was going to "use a sledgehammer to smash a walnut."

Military officials in Iraq also reported the arrest of eight Iraqis during searches in Mosul. Soldiers seized a five-gallon container of gunpowder, three grenades, five fuses, two cases of rifle ammunition and two rifles, the United States Army said.

The military has made a rather public effort in recent days to tamp down speculation that they are fighting a guerrilla war against foreign terrorists. Late last week, Gen. John P. Abizaid, the senior American military commander in the Middle East, said loyalists to Saddam Hussein not foreign terrorists posed the greatest danger to American troops and to stability in Iraq.

General Swannack said Iraq's borders had been "porous" in the months before he took command of the region. The number of soldiers patrolling the borders has almost tripled, to 20,000, he said.

General Petraeus, in the north, said his men had deployed new technology along the border that can locate anyone or anything trying to cross it. With that, he said, "if you don't see anything moving, then you know you have got control."

A few days ago, General Swannack said, his men came across their largest group of foreigners trying to sneak across from Syria. "We identified six of them at the border," he said. "One pulled a knife, and he was killed. We secured the other five."