Trump wrapped up his remarks, which ran over 90 minutes long, by briefly returning to the moderated, restrained tone he started with.

"Together, we will save this country, we will restore the republic, and we will usher in the rich and wonderful tomorrow people so truly deserve," he said. "America's future will be bigger, better, bolder, brighter, happier, stronger, freer, greater and more united than ever before."

Normally, a Trump speech ends with an extended monologue about how terrible the current state of America is, before vowing to make America strong, safe, wealthy and great again.

And indeed, this time he said after winning in November he would "very quickly Make America Great Again."

Apart from the extended discussion of Saturday's assassination attempt, though, the text of these remarks could have been delivered on any stage at any rally around the country he's held in 2024.

While mentioning President Joe Biden by name only once (and once again, to say he would only use it once), Trump's speech more circuitously painted a picture of a country in terrible shape, and argued that he alone can fix it.

Former President Donald Trump used his speech on Thursday to continue to push for mass removals of unauthorized migrants.

He claimed migrants crossing into the U.S. without authorization have mental health problems and are criminals.

“That’s why to keep our families safe, the Republican platform promises to launch the largest deportation operation in the history of our country,” Trump said.

It’s unclear what mechanism Trump would use to accomplish this, although he’s suggested he’d use the military to deport migrants.

The Office of Homeland Security Statistics says there’s about 11 million unauthorized migrants in the U.S.

But research doesn’t support his claim that all migrants commit crimes.

According to Stanford University, immigrants are 30% less likely to be imprisoned than white people born in the U.S.

Still, 47% of Americans support deporting all immigrants in the country without authorization, according to polling by Gallup.

Trump said he supports legal migration.

Some Republican strategists worry calling for mass deportations could alienate Hispanic voters — a part of the electorate that Trump and the GOP have been going after.

Artemio Muñiz, the chairman of the Texas-based Federation of Hispanic Republicans, said he supports more enforcement at the southern U.S. border, but he worries the message Trump is sending about mass deportations could backfire.

“It’s important as a Republican who wants to win in November, that we remember that there's a large Hispanic vote bloc that we’ve got to win over,” Muñiz. “The immigration solution proposed by our candidate President Trump will determine how well we do with that community.”

Muñiz, whose parents were in the country without authorization, said he believes deportations of people in the interior of the country should be limited to those who have committed crimes or are “a burden to our society.”

Former President Donald Trump opened his presidential nominating speech with an emotional recounting of the shooting at his rally last week that left him injured and killed another.

"As you already know, the assassin's bullet came within a quarter of an inch of taking my life," he said. "So many people have asked me what happened. 'Tell us what happened, please,' and therefore I will tell you exactly what happened, and you'll never hear it from me a second time, because it's actually too painful to tell."

For more than 10 minutes, Trump recounted to the Republican National Convention in vivid details his observations of the attack on the "warm, beautiful day in the early evening In Butler township in the great Commonwealth of Pennsylvania."

Trump, in a more subdued and somber tone than his usual bombast, said that he felt something hit his ear, and that he "felt very safe, because I had God on my side."

"I'm not supposed to be here tonight," Trump said as the crowd responded "Yes you are!" "Not supposed to be here... I thank you, but I'm not, and I'll tell you, I stand before you in this arena only by the grace of Almighty God."

Read the full report here.

Former President Donald Trump has made immigration a cornerstone of his reelection campaign, and has claimed immigrants are invading the U.S.

“It’s a massive invasion at our southern border that has spread misery, crime, poverty, disease and destruction to communities all across our land,” Trump said during his RNC speech.

But that’s not true.

Under President Biden’s administration, the U.S. southern border saw a record high of people crossing without authorization. In December, U.S. Customs and Border Protection reported nearly 250,000 encounters between ports of entry in the region.

But since January, that number has gone down significantly.

According to CBP, there were 83,536 encounters between ports of entry on the U.S.-Mexico border in June.

Biden has ramped up enforcement measures, such as severely restricting asylum for most migrants attempting to enter the U.S., and expediting the removal of unauthorized migrants.

According to an analysis by the Migration Policy Institute, Biden’s efforts have resulted in about 4.4 million repatriations, “already more than any single presidential term since the George W. Bush administration (5 million in its second term).”

Still, Trump has vowed to conduct mass deportations once he’s back in office. In an April interview with Time Magazine, he suggested there were between 15 to 20 million unauthorized migrants in the U.S.

But according to an April report by the Office of Homeland Security Statistics, there’s about 11 million unauthorized migrants in the U.S.

That number is a little less than 2018, when the population of unauthorized migrants was estimated at 11.5 million.

The report says “the vast majority of the population (79 percent) entered before 2010, but that percentage is declining (from 83 percent in 2018) as new unauthorized entrants arrive and earlier entrants emigrate, die, or adjust to legally resident status.”

Despite Trump’s frequent claims to the contrary, the 2017 tax cut was not the largest in U.S. history. However, it was big enough to blow a large hole in the federal budget.

Tax revenues as a share of GDP dropped to 16.3% in the year after the tax cut was passed, down from 17.1% the year before and an average of 17.7% over the past 40 years. Even though federal spending also declined as a share of GDP in 2018, the deficit topped $785 billion that year, and approached a trillion dollars in 2019 – the year before the pandemic.

According to the non-partisan Tax Policy Center, more than half the savings from the 2017 tax cut went to the top 10% of earners, and more than a quarter went to the top 1%.

Large parts of the 2017 tax cut are due to expire next year. Trump has proposed extending all of them, and while also calling for additional, unspecified tax cuts. Biden has proposed extending the tax cuts for everyone making less than $400,000 a year (97% of the population) while raising taxes on corporations and the wealthy.

Under Biden, the IRS has also beefed up tax enforcement to ensure that wealthier people and businesses pay what they owe. GOP lawmakers have criticized that effort, and it would likely be reversed in a second Trump administration.

While recounting his attempted assassination, Trump took a moment to acknowledge those who were killed and injured in the attack that nearly took his own life.

He talked about Corey Comperatore, the 50-year-old engineer, volunteer firefighter and father who was killed after he dove on his family to protect them at the rally.

Trump said Comperatore was "respected by everybody," and acted selflessly to protect his wife and two children.

"He went right over the top of them and was hit," Trump said. "What a fine man he was."

As the crowd chanted "Corey," Trump walked across the stage to Comperatore's firefighting jacket and helmet, which were put on display. He put his hands on the shoulders of the jacket and kissed the helmet, then pointed to it as the crowd cheered.

Trump said he spoke to the two men who were injured, 57-year-old David Dutch and 74-year-old James Copenhaver, as well as the families of all three victims.

He called Dutch and Copenhaver "warriors," and said they were "very, very seriously injured but now they're doing very well," adding, "they're gonna be okay."

Trump said in recent days supporters have raised $6.3 million for the families of all three victims. He held up a paper check for $1 million, which he said a friend had given him that very day.

"When speaking to the family I told them, 'Well, we'll be sending you a lot of money, but it can't compensate,'" he said.

Trump asked the crowd to observe a moment of silence "in honor of our friend Corey." The packed room was, for the first time all night, hushed. There were 15 seconds of complete silence, save for the clicks of the cameras on the floor.

Senior Heritage Foundation fellow Sarah Parshall Perry talked to NPR's Susan Davis on Thursday about Project 2025, the think-tank's policy project to expand presidential powers and overhaul the federal workforce in favor of party loyalists.

"Project 2025 is exactly the same thing that we've done since 1980 every presidential election and provided to every candidate regardless of politics or political affiliation," Perry said. "The sole difference this year was that we built a coalition of more than a hundred conservative organizations in addition to publishing everything online."

Trump has sought to distance himself from Project 2025 after it attracted criticism, while the Biden campaign is trying to tie him more closely to the conservative plan.

Davis questioned Perry regarding her argument that children "were being sacrificed on the altar of woke progressivism." Perry responded that this quote refers to increased diversity efforts in primary and postsecondary schools.

"What you're seeing in public education is more of an effort to indoctrinate than educate," Perry said. "There are some things that children should not be subject to and schools can restrict from being involved with."

Davis ended with asking Perry what Trump's first actions in office should be if elected. Perry said many legal frameworks surrounding discrimination, like Title IX, should be revised or revoked.

"There are three branches, they ought to be separated, and it is not up to the executive to make the law," Perry said.

Wrestling legend Hulk Hogan, who has been known to make a dramatic entrance in the ring, walked onstage against a montage of videos and photos of himself in various patriotic poses.

He took to the podium wearing a red bandana and sunglasses on his head, gesturing to the crowd that he couldn't hear their chants of "USA."

The retired professional wrestler said the "vibe was so intense, the energy was so crazy, it felt like maybe I was gonna press that no-good stinky giant over my head and slam him into the mat, brother."

"But what I found out was that I was in a room of real Americans, brother," he added. "And at the end of the day, with our leader up there, my hero, that gladiator, we're going to bring America back together, one real American at a time, brother," he said, as Trump looked on, smiling.

He described Trump, who said he's known for over 35 years, as tough, a fighter and a winner.

Hogan is one of several sports-adjacent figures taking the stage for the convention's last night, in addition to former WWE CEO — and former small business administrator — Linda McMahon and UFC President Dana White.

Hogan said he's seen plenty of legendary tag teams over his life, but none greater than Trump and his vice presidential pick J.D. Vance. He told "real Americans" to get ready to be labeled "Trumpites" under a Trump presidency.

"With the power of Donald J. Trump and all the Trumpites running wild, America is gonna get back on track and like Donald J. Trump said, America is gonna be great again," he added.

Hogan's voice got darker as he spoke of the attempted Trump assassination last week, and he took off his blazer as he said "they took a shot at my hero."

"And they tried to kill the next president of the United States," he said, as he ripped his muscle tee down the middle to reveal a Trump-Vance tank top underneath. "Enough was enough. Let Trumpamania run wild, brother. Let Trumpamania rule again. Let Trumpamania make America great again."

The crowd roared all the while, and chanted "USA" as he stood there in the campaign t-shirt.

"You know Trumpites, I didn't come here as Hulk Hogan, but I just had to give you a little taste," said Hogan, whose real name is Terry Bollea.

He said as an entertainer he tried to stay out of politics, but "after everything that's happened to our country over the past four years and everything that happened last weekend, I can no longer stay silent."

Veteran Republican pollster Frank Luntz spoke with NPR's Susan Davis tonight, giving viewers a clearer picture of the new Republican party forming.

"This has really been a remarkable convention featuring union members, African Americans, Latinos, people who you don't think of as being Republican are actively being shown in the messaging," Luntz said. "The messaging has been quite strong, quite optimistic."

Luntz said that while he was not involved in this year's RNC planning, he would not change most of the messaging.

"This is the first Republican convention since 1992 that I have not written a single word by a single speaker," Luntz said. "If I were writing these words, a lot of them I would have written for this convention."

Luntz added that while the new Republican party will dissuade some voters on issues like abortion, the gains will make up for the losses.

"Trump is going to have problems with suburban areas that were once solidly Republican, but he gains more votes from people who live paycheck to paycheck, which is one quarter of America. It's a net gain," Luntz said.

Davis also asked Luntz about the possibility of Biden dropping out, to which he warned the Democratic party.

"With Kamala Harris, everything is up for grabs... they should be very careful," Luntz said.

Rev. Lorenzo Sewell, a Black pastor at 180 Church in Detroit, Mich., gave an animated speech in defense of Trump's religious policies.

The speech highlighted Sewell's convictions as a Christian and how he believes that connects him with Trump.

"He came to a church not to speak to us, but to listen to us," Sewell said. "Why would you allow Donald Trump to come into your church? How many know that the Bible says we're all sinners and all need the grace of God."

Sewell also made a spectacle out of Trump visiting the church on his birthday weekend, making allusions to the socioeconomic divide.

"He came during his birthday weekend," Sewell said. "Let me ask you a question, grand old party, what would you do if you were worth $6.7 billion? Would you come into Detroit? He came to the hood because he cares about average, everyday Americans."

Sewell ended by claiming that God protected Trump and that him surviving the assassination attempt was fated, divine intervention.

"When we prayed for President Trump, only God knew that 30 days later there would be a miracle by a millimeter," Sewell said. "You could not deny that it was a millimeter miracle."

"Could it be that Jesus Christ preserved him for such a time as this?" Sewell added to rapturous cheers and applause.

Conservative media star Tucker Carlson began his remarks by soberly addressing the assassination attempt on former President Donald Trump.

"Everything was different after that moment — everything — this convention is different. The nation is different. The world is different. Donald Trump is different," he said.

He went on to describe the moment — repeated multiple times in speeches this week — when Trump raised his fist with blood on his face.

"He was no longer just a political party's nominee or a former president or a future president," he said. "This was the leader of a nation."

Carlson is a longtime political commentator and TV personality who hosted FOX News's primetime evening show from 2016 until 2023. On his platform, he promoted theories of voter fraud in the 2020 election — despite privately disparaging the legitimacy of those same theories.

As the remarks continued, which Carlson disclosed were unscripted, he recounted a personal experience he had with Trump — referencing when the former President checked in on his family after self-described “anti-fascist” protestors congregated in front of Carlson's home in 2018.

"It wasn't getting shot in the face, but it wrecked our day," he joked.

Carlson has become one of the biggest pro-Trump media figures in the country — even since leaving FOX News.

On the first night of the convention, Carlson even had a prime spot in the VIP booth, sitting near former President Trump as he made his first appearance after the assassination attempt.

On the last day of the RNC, protesters gathered in a park a few blocks from the convention center and marched to the security barrier, just as many of them had at the start of the political event four days earlier.

But this time, the mood was somber, angry and sad, as speakers took the megaphone to memorialize two Black men killed recently in Milwaukee.

"Look what the RNC brought!" yelled one activist, referring to the killing of Samuel Sharpe, a man shot dead two days earlier by police from Columbus, Ohio. The officers were part of the 4,500-strong force brought in to provide extra security during the RNC.

Body camera footage shows Sharpe, knives in hand, in a confrontation with another man before police shot him. Police say they acted to save a life, but his sister Angelique Sharpe believes police could have used a nonlethal method of disarming him.

She says the heightened state of security in Milwaukee, which is hosting a presidential candidate just days after an assassination attempt, is to blame for her brother’s death.

“I think all of the security was just, if they was a 10, they were on a 15,” she says. “I’m pretty sure they were instructed that there was no wiggle room… but if that was Donald Trump’s son or one of the other political dignitaries standing there, I’m 100% sure they would want that handled a different type of way.”

The crowd marched to the Hyatt hotel near the RNC barrier, where another Black Milwaukee man, D'Vontaye Mitchell, was killed by security guards a couple of weeks earlier.

“Say his name!” the crowd chanted, demanding justice for the two men from whoever may be listening—Republican or Democrat, locals and visitors.

"Who cares if the f----ing RNC is here?" demanded Leo Pargo, a protester from Chicago. "This is about humanity."

House Speaker Mike Johnson (R-La.) said Trump’s speech tonight will be met with a growing anticipation and “a lot of energy” that’s been building in the convention and across the country.

“After the assassination attempt, I think there’s an emotional aspect to this that just can’t be discounted,” he said. “So it’s going to be a big night.”

Speaking to NPR on the RNC convention floor, Johnson said he expects the former president to present “a message of unity and vision for moving the country forward.”

Johnson and Trump, who backed him for the speakership, have continued to stand by each other — including during a period of party infighting this spring that almost led to Johnson’s exit from his post. Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-Ga.) motioned to vacate Johnson from the speakership, but backed down at Trump's urging. Together, they’ve emphasized campaign issues such as cost of living, crime, immigration and America’s standing in the global arena.

Johnson said Trump will convey his love for the country and his vision for it in the future in tonight’s speech.

“I think when he says America First, that comes from a deep, sincere place in his heart,” Johnson said. “He loves the American people. He loves what America stands for. And I think he's going to articulate that tonight and have a clear vision for where we're going. I think it's going to resonate with the American people, just like J.D. Vance’s speech did last night.”

Former Trump senior counselor Kellyanne Conway told NPR News that Ohio Sen. J.D. Vance — now the GOP vice presidential nominee — is an younger "advocate" and "ambassador" of Trump's Republican Party.

"President Trump represents a new Republican Party, and his selection of J.D. Vance also broadcasts to everyone that he wants to continue — in between him and his vice president — in that regard," Conway said. "What's new about it? Well, it's new because it's a party of the worker."

On the first night of the RNC, Teamsters president Sean O'Brien delivered the keynote speech. It's the first time a president from the union has addressed the RNC. And while the appearance represented a possible shift in the GOP, it also drew condemnation from Teamsters vice president at-large John Palmer, who said Trump has done nothing to help working families.

Openness to labor unions isn't the only new characteristic to Trump's Republican Party, according to Conway.

"If you look at the Republican National Committee platform that was adopted here ahead of President Trump's nomination and acceptance speech — it is leaner, but it also is more modern, more fresh and more aligned with the America first principles," Conway said. "Which is — think thrice before we just write blank checks to other countries around the world. Start containing and pushing back on those bullies again around the world."

Trump has said he would end the war in Ukraine in just a day — with no explanation of how — and has continued to warn NATO countries he won't protect them if they don't pay their dues. Vance has echoed Trump's NATO position and voted against recent aid packages supporting Ukraine in its fight against Russia's invasion. It's a position that stands in contrast to traditional Republican foreign policy.

In talking about the Trump-Vance ticket and what it means for the future Republican party, Conway said it's about alignment on the issues.

"Donald Trump's not looking for loyalty to Donald Trump," Conway said. "He's looking for loyalty to the America first agenda."

Hit by a rolling series of punches — the turmoil after President Biden's disastrous debate, the drip-drip-drip of damaging leaks from congressional allies, and now a campaign-stalling case of COVID — people who work inside the Biden campaign are discouraged and uncertain about what lies ahead.

"We can't catch a break,” a Biden adviser said, speaking on condition of anonymity to frankly describe private conversations.

Ever since Biden faltered in his debate against former President Donald Trump, the bad news just keeps coming — much of it from unnamed sources who are supposed to be allies. While there have been some positive moments for the president since the debate, “They haven't been enough to get us back on solid footing," the adviser said.

This adviser said Biden has not shown signs of any cracks in his resolve to stay in the race — and said it’s not yet clear whether the pile-up of woes has reached a tipping point for the president.

If he drops out, that opens the door to a compressed "Hunger Games"-type of race within the party for choosing a new leader, the adviser said.

While the adviser sees strong future candidates on the Democratic bench, they have not been battle-tested for a brutal fight against Trump.

"What campaign team is going to rise from the ashes?" the adviser asked.

“It's gonna be ugly. it's gonna be dirty. It's gonna be messy.”

Linda McMahon, who served for a time as the administrator of Trump's Small Business Administration, spoke from her perspective as a colleague, employee and friend of the former president.

McMahon, alongside her husband Vince, spent decades as the CEO of World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) before running unsuccessfully for both of Connecticut's U.S. Senate seats in 2009 and 2010.

She served as Trump's small business administrator from 2017 to 2019, when she stepped down to join the pro-Trump super PAC America First Action. She introduced herself onstage as the chair of the America First Policy Institute, which was founded in 2021 by former Trump advisers.

McMahon opened with what she described as "probably not the typical Donald Trump story," recalling a time she met him at Mar-a-Lago for a meeting and watched a sweet interaction between him and his 4-year-old granddaughter.

"He kissed her on both cheeks, she took off his hat and mussed his hair, and he smiled with only the love that a grandfather could have given," she said, joining a long line of RNC speakers who have portrayed Trump as a loving family man.

McMahon said she first met Trump during her time at the WWE, when he "became part of some of the most compelling and highest-rated storylines in the company's history."

She said she was honored to serve in his cabinet at his invitation, and recalled her time traveling the country talking to business owners and job creators.

"They knew they had a president who understood them and fought for them," she said.

But her most poignant memory from her time in the administration, she said, was traveling with Trump in 2018 to witness the damage Hurricane Florence wrought on her hometown of New Bern, N.C. She said he comforted people and spoke to them, as a "builder," about what recovery would look like.

McMahon said Democrats want to penalize small businesses by hiking their taxes, but that Trump will make those tax cuts permanent in addition to offering new ones, such as no taxes on tips.

Many of Trump's 2017 tax cuts are due to expire in 2025. Biden wants to extend those tax cuts for people making under $400,000 while raising taxes on corporations and the wealthy, while Trump wants to extend them for everyone.

McMahon described Trump as a champion of job creation and "the best friend American workers have ever had in the White House." And, in true WWE fashion, she described him as "not only a fighter" but "a good man."

"He has the heart of a lion and the soul of a warrior, and I believe that if necessary he would stand at the gates of hell to defend our country," she added.

Paul Geenen, 81, laced up his blue suede Adidas sneakers, threw on a perfectly sized satchel packed with campaign literature and hit the pavement, knocking doors recently for President Biden while headlines screamed alarm about the fate of Biden’s campaign.

“Hi, I’m Paul with the Shorewood Dems,” he says with a smile. The woman at the door is a little standoffish. But Geenen jumps right in asking if she plans to support Biden.

“Are you going to support Joe Biden in November?” Geenan asks.

Her response: “I’m not sure.”

Shorewood is a heavily Democratic village just north of Milwaukee. But the list Geenen is working from contains a mix of possibly persuadable Republicans, independents and Democrats.

He tells anyone who will listen that he’s supporting Biden because his family has been impacted by gun violence “and he’s done a lot for that and he’s going to do more.”

Most people aren’t home or don’t come to the door, so he leaves campaign fliers and keeps on moving. At one house he chats with a woman who says the economy is her top issue and she’s definitely not voting for Biden. There’s a house where the residents are supporting Biden. And another, where a young man without a shirt on says the economy he’s thinking he might go independent.

Geenan says a lot of people he knows are stressed about Biden, his bad debate performance and the reckoning since.

“My wife is really really bummed out,” he says.

Geenen is just putting his head down and doing the work, but with a choice curse word, makes it clear he’s done talking about the drama.

Biden defended his record and fitness for office in a TelevisaUnivision interview this week, the latest in a series of recent media appearances aimed at reaching key demographic groups — and rejecting Democrats' growing calls for him to step down.

Biden acknowledged he had a "terrible" debate night in June, but defended his decision to stay in the race and also pointed to recent polling that shows him tied with Trump since the debate.

"I was smart enough to know, with age comes wisdom," he said. "I know the difference between the truth and lies. I know the difference between the good and bad."

Biden spoke with Uforia entertainment reporter Luis Sandoval at a Mexican restaurant in Las Vegas on Wednesday, shortly before he tested positive for COVID-19.

In it, he discussed his confidence in the Latino vote and community at large, reiterated that he is fighting for democracy, spoke of the importance of preserving minorities' rights and took jabs at Donald Trump.

He described the Latino community as a "source of incredible strength," vibrancy and economic growth, and repeatedly described Trump's rhetoric towards immigrants and Latinos as "sick."

Trump's platform calls for starting the "Largest Deportation Program in American History," and many RNC speakers have called for securing the southern border.

Latino voters were crucial to Biden's victory in 2020, and their ranks have grown at the second-fastest rate of any major racial and ethnic group in the U.S. since then, according to the Pew Research Center.

But experts say he'll need to work harder to earn their votes this time around, especially with recent polling showing that Latino support for Biden drops dramatically when a third (non-Trump) candidate is on the table.

Biden acknowledged that while his administration has worked to expand rights, especially for minorities, the U.S. Supreme Court has limited some of them such as by overturning Roe and blocking certain immigration actions.

"That's why we have to win," he said, adding that the next president is going to "probably" be in a position to appoint two new Supreme Court justices.

"We're gonna fight like hell. We gotta win the House and Senate, not just the presidency ... that's what I'm working on."

For a third time, former President Donald Trump will formally accept the Republican Party’s presidential nomination this Thursday night. His speech will also reflect his current level of control over the party: Trump’s platform is now the GOP’s platform.

Earlier this week, the RNC’s platform committee adopted Trump's 2024 platform as its own. That means the committee hasn’t created a new platform since 2016, when Trump first won the nomination. In 2020, the party simply re-upped its 2016 platform, saying the committee hadn’t been able to meet due to the COVID-19 pandemic — and that, in any case, it supported then-President Trump’s policies.

The Trump 2024 platform is 16 pages long, while the GOP's 2016 platform had 66 pages. As you might expect, the most liberal thing about the Trump campaign's platform is in its use of capital letters (sample: "we are a Nation in SERIOUS DECLINE.").

Trump is slated to speak from 10 to 11:30 p.m. ET Thursday night. So, what will he talk about?

Traditionally, nominees use the marquee acceptance speech to highlight priorities for the White House. But in Trump’s case, he’s a known quantity, and as NPR’s Franco Ordoñez recently reported, Trump will likely focus on familiar ideas, such as immigration and crime, along with fighting inflation and implementing his brand of America First ideology.

Another likely topic is education. In Trump's 2024 platform, the words "education" and "school" appear a total of 42 times — including a pledge to dismantle the U.S. Department of Education. For comparison, it uses iterations of the word "tax" 17 times. And "abortion" is mentioned only once.

Sources familiar with Trump’s remarks also say we should expect to hear a “deeply personal” message from the former president, who has said he substantially rewrote his RNC speech after the attempted assassination last Saturday.

“Honestly, it’s going to be a whole different speech now,” he said early this week, adding that he sees the event as “a chance to bring the country together.”

Top Democrats in Washington are mired in an ongoing crisis over President Biden's continued candidacy that has been exacerbated by his recent COVID diagnosis.

Former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries, D-NY, and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-NY, are all responding to leaked reports that they have directly appealed to Biden to step aside.

None are publicly denying the leaks. Democrats have been panicking — both in public and in private — as they try to appeal to Biden to voluntarily step aside.

Biden has continued to insist that he is still expects to be the party's nominee and is undeterred from his campaign.

None of the top leaders have publicly declared Biden should remain the party's nominee, fueling more questions from rank-and-file members about how explicit they have been in their private discussions with the president.

After the Washington Post reported former President Barack Obama has told people he thinks Biden needs to consider whether his bid for a second term is still viable, a source familiar with Obama's thinking said he "continues to see his primary role as a sounding board and counselor for President Biden, as they have long done for each other for many years now."

"He believes Joe Biden has been an outstanding president and is protective of him both personally and of the Biden administration’s strong and historic accomplishments," said the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the situation.

A Pelosi spokesperson released a statement Thursday responding to reports published by CNN that Pelosi told Biden that polls show he cannot defeat Donald Trump and his continued candidacy could prevent Democrats from retaking control of the House. The statement does not explicitly deny the reporting.

“Speaker Pelosi respects the confidentiality of her meetings and conversations with the President of the United States," the spokesman wrote. "Sadly, the feeding frenzy from the press based on anonymous sources misrepresents any conversations the Speaker may have had with the President.”

Read more here.

When vice presidential nominee J.D. Vance spoke to the crowd at the RNC last night, he made a promise to the people of Middletown, Ohio, and other blue-collar towns like it.

"All the forgotten communities in every corner of our nation: I will be a vice president who never forgets where he came from," he said.

Some people in Middletown, where Vance grew up with his grandparents, said he has never been an advocate for them, even after becoming a U.S. senator.

“Oh, my God. It is very surprising considering that J.D. Vance hasn't did anything for our community here in Middletown,” said Lakeisha Thomas Monday after news that former President Trump picked Vance as a running mate. Thomas runs a nonprofit for low-income residents in Middletown.

“It’s always awesome to see someone from your hometown get to come up and represent a local place, no matter what their political party is,” said Andrea McKeller, a local real estate agent who says she thinks Vance’s small-town roots will drive him to “put in place a lot of policies to, hopefully, move some favor toward the smaller towns to help the communities grow.”

Others in Middletown said they were surprised by the news, given Vance’s relatively young age. He’s 39, turning 40 next month.

“If he can keep reaching out to find out what younger people want and keep bringing that into the mix of the Republican Party, otherwise, I think we're getting kind of old,” said Janet Hydeman, who works for a stained glass company and says she votes Republican.

One person in Middletown who doesn’t care about Vance’s nomination is software developer Orville Bennett. He said he doesn’t plan to vote for either presidential candidate, “I think they’re both not great options for the things that I value,” he said.

For Ohio, Vance’s nomination could mean a resurgence in prominence on the national scene.

With doubts swirling about President Biden's political future, so too are questions about how the party might fare without him come the general election in November.

Calls for the president to drop out of the race have only grown in the weeks since his poor debate performance in June, with increasingly high-profile members of his own party urging him to pass the torch.

The latest national NPR/PBS NewsHour/Marist poll, released last week, found that Biden and Trump remain statistically tied, even in the aftermath of the widely panned debate.

Biden leads Trump 50% to 48% in a head-to-head matchup — but those numbers are not statistically significant, due to the survey's margin of error of +/- 3.1 percentage points.

The poll also found that none of the Democrats who have been mentioned as possible alternatives — including California Gov. Gavin Newsom and Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer — performed any better than Biden when compared to Trump.

Loading...

Vice President Kamala Harris, an obvious candidate to serve as Biden's successor, narrowly led Trump 50% to 49%, in another statistical tie.

"So there is no clear Democratic alternative, though, as Democrats who have called for Biden to step aside would argue, those candidates could all make the case more coherently for themselves and the party," NPR's Domenico Montanaro writes.

And those numbers could look different after this week, since the RNC is expected to give Trump a boost, as party conventions typically do for their nominees.

Biden — who is isolating with COVID-19 as Trump prepares to formally accept the Republican nomination — insists he will stay in the race.

Biden's campaign manager told reporters Thursday that they are "not working through any scenarios where President Biden is not at the top of the ticket."

President Biden told BET News’ Ed Gordon that he won’t be leaving the presidential race unless he had “had some medical condition that emerged.”

Since Biden’s disastrous debate performance a few weeks ago, there has been pressure from factions of the Democratic Party urging the president to step out of the race in favor of a candidate who might have a better chance of winning in November. However, Biden has consistently said he has no intention of leaving.

He said in an interview that aired Wednesday night that though he, at one point, planned on being “a transitional candidate” who would step aside for a younger generation of Democratic leaders — the state of the nation changed his mind.

“I thought that I'd be able to move from this, just pass it on to someone else,” Biden said. “But I didn't anticipate things getting so, so, so divided.”

Biden, who is 81 years old, also confronted comments about his age. He said his age “brings a little bit of wisdom."

“And I think I've demonstrated that I know how to get things done for the country, in spite of the fact I was told we could [not] get it done,” he said. “But there's more to do, and I'm reluctant to walk away from that.”

The president was also asked whether he anticipated Donald Trump might be a changed candidate, perhaps more disciplined, following the assassination attempt in Butler, Pa. this past weekend. He said he’d like to see a change in tone from former president, as well as others.

“We got to tone down the rhetoric about violence,” he said. “There's no room for violence. Can't be talking about violence. We can't be saying that if I lose the election, it will be a bloodbath.”

Biden also commented on Trump’s recent pick for vice president, Sen. J.D. Vance of Ohio. Vance was once a critic of Trump's but has become a staunch ally. Trump endorsed Vance during his Senate run in 2022.

Biden said Trump’s choice shows that “he's decided that MAGA Republican politics is going to be the future of the Republican Party.”

“J.D. is a bright guy, like a hard-working senator, but really, really, really conservative MAGA Republican,” he said.

"MASS DEPORTATION NOW!" read posters handed out to attendees at the Republican National Convention's third night.

The signs referred to former President Donald Trump and the GOP's campaign platform pledge to "carry out the largest deportation operation in American history."

Seeing the signs was "chilling," Stephanie Valencia, a former Obama administration official and founder of EquisLabs, a research and polling group that aims to better understand Latino voters, told NPR's Morning Edition. She warned that the signs "probably sent a message to many Latino voters in this country that that is the view of Republicans and who they see Latinos as, and who they see immigrants as."

Republicans will have "overplayed their hand," Valencia said, if they continue with this rhetoric through the election.

A recent poll of likely Latino voters in swing states found they supported Biden 59% to Trump’s 39%, but support for the president fell when independent candidate Robert F. Kennedy Jr. was listed as an option.

While Trump has railed about unauthorized migration on the southern border, his focus on working class Americans has also resonated with working class Latinos.

Valencia said that, while Latinos care about more than just immigration, it remains an important issue because it tells them how a candidate views the Latino community.

“Do they view whether or not Latinos have something to contribute to this country?” she continued.

Valencia also said President Biden needs to court Latino voters as well as emphasize things like his recent immigration plan to shield some undocumented spouses of U.S. citizens in order to win those voters' support at the ballot box. Such support was key for him in certain swing states in 2020.

The Biden campaign told reporters Thursday morning that President Joe Biden remains at the top of the Democratic ticket for the 2024 election, but a top Republican said he's ready for a switch — if it happens.

"Axios is now reporting that there are a number of senior Democrat advisers who are saying Joe Biden could be out of this race by this weekend," former Trump campaign manager and now adviser to the Republican National Convention Corey Lewandowski told NPR News. "We are prepared, as a Trump campaign, to run this campaign and bring our message to the American people, whether Joe Biden is the nominee or somebody else is the nominee."

When asked about former President Donald Trump's speech this evening, Lewandowski said it would be an address for both Republicans — and Democrats.

"What would have been a probably much more aggressive speech is going to be toned down, because the greatest leaders of our country bring people together and unify," Lewandowski said. "It's not about being a Republican or a Democrat. It's about having ideas that the American people get to vote on at the ballot box."

Sources close to the former president tell NPR News that Trump is writing the Thursday speech himself and that the speech will be personal. It is set for 10 p.m. ET.

Introducing Donald Trump for his acceptance speech tonight will be Dana White, president and CEO of the Ultimate Fighting Championship.

Although an expert on mixed martial arts, White is no politician. So, why is he introducing Trump tonight at the RNC?

Last month, when White was asked about Trump’s appearance at a UFC match, he shared how he’s been connected to Trump for decades.

“Yeah, me and Trump have been friends since 2001,” White said.

While speaking on The Pivot Podcast years ago, White revealed that Trump was a part of the reason the UFC became successful.

“Arenas didn't want us,” White said. “We had a hard time finding venues. Trump literally called us. He said, 'Come to my place, do the event here. We'll have you at the Trump Taj Mahal.' ”

White admitted that because Trump helped him in the early stages of his career, White endorsed Trump's first presidential campaign in 2016.

“He's always been a solid guy with me,” White said on The Pivot. “So then he calls me and says he's running for president. He said 'If you don't wanna do this, I completely understand, but I would be honored if you would speak at the National Republican Convention for me.' ”

And White said yes.

“I’m sure most of you are wondering, ‘What are you doing here?’ I am not a politician, I am a fight promoter,” White told attendees on the second night of the convention. “But I was blown away and honored to be invited here tonight and I wanted to show up and tell you about my friend, Donald Trump.”

After learning about Saturday's assassination attempt, White posted to Instagram, "I am absolutely SICK to my stomach and in complete shock. ... I can’t WAIT to stand up on stage with him on Thursday and introduce him at the Republican National Convention."

Vice President Harris is at the forefront of the Biden campaign’s efforts to counter-program the Republican convention today, with President Biden isolating at home for COVID.

And with open questions about whether Biden should stay at the top of the Democratic ticket, Harris’ speech — in a state that Democrats had hoped they could turn blue this fall — is likely to draw more attention than it otherwise might.

Some Democrats have said Harris would be the obvious pick for the party if Biden were to drop out of the race — and to be clear, Biden and his campaign are saying that he is not going anywhere.

“Our campaign is not working through any scenarios where President Biden is not the top of the ticket. He is and will be the Democratic nominee,” deputy campaign chair Quentin Fulks told reporters in Milwaukee today, slightly exasperated at the line of questioning.

The campaign is working hard to try to draw a contrast between Biden’s policies and the proposals of former President Donald Trump and his running mate Sen. J.D. Vance — particularly on the issue of reproductive rights.

Yesterday, Harris committed to another potential date for a debate with Vance, though the Trump campaign has said the internal debate within the Democratic Party about Biden’s fate has put the vice presidential debate in question too.

“We can’t lock in a date before their convention. To do so would be unfair to Gavin Newsom, JB Pritzker, Gretchen Whitmer, or whoever Kamala Harris picks as her running mate,” Trump campaign adviser Brian Hughes said in a statement.

The governors of California, Illinois and Michigan are frequently cited as potential future Democratic candidates. And there has been some speculation that North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper could be a running mate if Harris were at the top of the ticket.

President Biden tested positive for COVID yesterday. He was in Las Vegas, campaigning. The White House said he developed a runny nose and a cough, so he took a COVID test and got the news.

Now, he’s back at his beach house in Delaware, where the White House says he’ll continue his normal duties. The White House gave his press pool a "lid" for today, which means he's unlikely to be seen on camera.

But this is bad timing for his campaign because the health of this president — and his ability to seek a second term — is under the microscope.

Yesterday, prominent House Democrat Adam Schiff called for Biden to pass the torch adding to a growing list. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer went to see him Saturday, in Delaware, which is unusual — and has issued a pair of uncharacteristically terse statements since. Schumer said he shared the concerns of Senate Democrats with the president and that the meeting was good.

White House spokesman Andrew Bates told us: “The President told both leaders he is the nominee of the party, he plans to win, and looks forward to working with both of them to pass his 100 days agenda to help working families.”

Biden still insists he's staying in the race

Publicly, at least, we aren’t seeing any cracks from the president or his inner circle of advisers. Two weeks ago, he said only the "Lord Almighty" could convince him to get out of the race.

In an interview with BET News recorded on Tuesday, he said that one thing that could change his mind would be some kind of serious medical condition.

And yesterday when he walked off Air Force One he responded to reporters shouting questions that he was doing well.

But at least for a few days — at this key moment in the campaign and with questions swirling around the viability of his candidacy — Biden is going to be largely invisible, isolating at his beach house.

Meanwhile, Republicans at their convention here in Milwaukee are projecting massive confidence. They're presenting a united front behind their nominee who just survived an assassination attempt and came out looking stronger.

Vance told the crowd that when his Mamaw died, his relatives found "19 loaded handguns" — sending them into applause and more chants of her name.

He said they were stashed across her house — under her bed, in her closet and in her silverware drawer. He said it occurred to his family that as she grew less mobile in her old age, "this frail old woman made sure that no matter where she was, she was within arms' length of whatever she needed to protect her family."

He called that American spirit, and "what we fight for." The crowd whooped and cheered.

The 39-year-old said Biden has been a politician longer than he himself has been alive, and credited Trump with essentially undoing the damage the D.C. establishment did before him.

He hit on some common Republican talking points about what the party sees as the main problems in America, from inflation to undocumented immigrants entering the country.

"But ladies and gentlemen, that is not the end of our story," he said, adding under Trump's vision the party will commit to the working man, fight for Americans' jobs and wages and producing energy, jobs and factories at home.

He vowed to "make sure our allies share in the burden of securing world peace, no more free rides for nations that betray the generosity of the American taxpayer."

Vance added that under Trump, Americans would send their kids to war "only when we must," but that "when we punch, we're going to punch hard."

He wrapped up his speech by thanking Trump and pledging to all Americans that "no matter your party that I will give you everything I have to serve you and to make this country a place where every dream you have for yourself, your family and your country will be possible once again."

He promised one more thing to the people of Middletown, Ohio and "all the forgotten communities in every corner of our nation: I will be a vice president who never forgets where he came from."

J.D. Vance, whose story has been described all week in terms of achieving the American Dream, said his most important American Dream was "becoming a good husband and a good dad."

He said the accomplishment he's most proud of is being able to give his three kids — ages 7, 4 and 2 — the things he didn't have when he was growing up in Middletown, Ohio.

"Now they're back at the hotel and kids, if you're watching, Daddy loves you very much, but get your butts back in bed," he said.

He then pivoted to discussing how things have not worked out quite as well for many of the kids he grew up with, many of them having since died of overdoses. He said the divide between those in D.C. and rural communities like his has only grown over the decades, until Trump came along.

He said Trump represents "America's last best hope to restore what if lost may never be found again: A country where a working class boy born far from the halls of power can stand on this stage as the next vice president of the United States of America."

The crowd was engaged as he spoke, periodically breaking into chants. At one point he remarked "you guys are a great crowd," prompting them to call back, "yes we are."

Vance also shouted out his mom in the audience, saying she was 10 years sober. She stood up from her seat in the family box, looking visibly emotional as the crowd applauded. They eventually broke into chants of "J.D.'s mom."

J.D. Vance said he never could have imagined he'd be standing on this stage — then proceeded to share what led him there.

He criticized Biden for supporting NAFTA, a trade deal with China, and the U.S. invasion of Iraq — all done under Republican administrations — which happened during his childhood and teenage years and hurt small towns. The crowd chanted "Joe gotta go," to which he responded "I agree."

"Joe Biden screwed up, and my community paid the price," he said.

Despite those hardships, he said he had a "guardian angel" by his side: his grandmother "Mamaw," who raised him while his own mother struggled with addiction. He described her as a woman of contradictions.

"She loved the Lord, ladies and gentlemen, she was a woman of very deep Christian faith," he said. "But she also loved the F-word. I'm not kidding, she could make a sailor blush."

He recounted when Mamaw learned he was spending time with a kid known for dealing drugs, she threatened to run him over with her car, adding, "No one would ever know."

The crowd burst into chants of "Mamaw" as Vance smiled and pumped his fist.

It was thanks to Mamaw, he said, that things worked out for him. He enlisted in the U.S. Marines after 9/11, four years later attended Ohio State University and then went to Yale Law School, where he met his wife. He later started businesses to create jobs "in the kind of places I grew up in."

He said there is "so much talent and grit ... but for these places to thrive, my friends, we need a leader who fights for the people who built this country."

Usha Chilukuri Vance, gave a glimpse into the political newcomer, now Republican vice presidential nominee, her husband, J.D. Vance.

"It's hard to imagine a more powerful example of the American dream, a boy from Middletown, Ohio, raised by his grandmother through tough times, chosen to help lead our country through some of its greatest challenges," she said amid applause and chants of support.

The two met as students at Yale Law School, married in 2014 and have three children together.

During Usha Vance's remarks, she spoke of them coming together despite their different upbringings.

"The J.D. I knew then is the same J.D. you see today — except for that beard." she joked.

"His goals in this new role are the same that he has pursued for our family: to keep people safe, to create opportunities, to build a better life and to solve problems with an open mind," she added.

Usha Vance, 38, enters the national spotlight with a stacked law career. She clerked for Judge Brett Kavanaugh when he was on the U.S. Court of Appeals and for U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts from 2017 to 2018.

She became an attorney at the national law firm Munger Tolles & Olson but has reportedly left the firm following Trump's selection of her husband as his running mate. She was a registered Democrat until at least 2014, according to public records.

In his speech accepting the vice presidential nomination, J.D. Vance thanked his wife, calling her "an incredible lawyer and a better mom."

J.D. Vance patiently waited for the crowd to stop cheering his name before he thanked his wife and introduced himself — and ending up in another chant, this time "OH-IO."

"You guys, we got to chill with the Ohio love, we gotta win Michigan too," he said, sparking another round of applause.

Vance called tonight "a night of hope, a celebration of what America once was and with God's grace what it soon will be again, and a reminder of the sacred duty we have to preserve the American experiment to choose a new path for our children and grandchildren."

But he said the night could have been one of mourning instead of celebration, after the attempt on Trump's life over the weekend. He said Trump, a successful businessman, had "anything anyone could ever want in a life," but chose to "endure abuse, slander and persecution ... because he loves this country."

Vance urged Americans to watch the video of the would-be assassination, "consider the lies they've told you about Trump and then look at that photo of him, defiant, fist in the air."

"When Donald Trump rose to his feet in that Pennsylvania field, all of America stood with him," he said. "They said he was a tyrant, they said he must be stopped at all costs, but how did he respond? He called for national unity, national calm, literally right after an assassin nearly took his life."

Vance, who was once outspoken in his criticism of Trump, said he'd gotten to know him personally over the last few years and seen firsthand how he is "tough but cares about people."

He described watching earlier this week as a man "feared by America's adversaries" gave his sons goodnight kisses on the cheek, joking that they squirmed the same way his four-year-old does when he does the same.

Kai Trump, the eldest granddaughter of former President Donald Trump, delivered a short but personal testament to her grandfather on the RNC stage.

"I'm speaking today to share the side of my grandpa that people don't often see," she said. "To me, he's just a normal grandpa. He gives us candy and soda when our parents aren't looking. He always wants to know how we're doing in school."

Trump beamed throughout his granddaughter's speech. The appearance adds to a growing list of individuals, mostly women, who have shown viewers a more personal side of the former president.

"Even when he's going through all these court cases, he always asks me how I'm doing. He always encourages me to push myself to be the most successful person I can be," she said. "Obviously, he sets the bar pretty high, but who knows, maybe one day I'll catch him."

It was a notable first moment for the next generation of Trumps.

In an introduction by her father, Donald Trump Jr., the oldest son of the former president, he said it was her "first time ever on a stage" and "first time ever giving a speech."

Though Donald Trump Jr. typically embodies a similarly aggressive and tough persona similar to his father, his introduction was softer and more emotional.

"A lot of proud moments this week for my family, thank you again guys," he said after she spoke. (That said, when Donald Trump Jr. began his remarks, they did once again return to his typical aggressive rhetoric.)

Kai Trump, who just turned 17, will not be old enough to vote this year.

On the Democratic side, we've also seen grandkids play a political role; President Biden's granddaughters have made speeches on his behalf throughout his 2020 campaign.

As Orna and Ronen Neutra walked onstage, the room erupted in chants of "bring them home" — the first of several throughout their time at the podium.

The Neutras, who live in Long Island, spoke about — and directly to — their son Omer, an American citizen who was kidnapped from Israel by Hamas on October 7.

He's been held hostage for 285 days and nights, his parents said, wearing t-shirts with his face on them and the number "285" taped to their jackets.

Orna described her son — who she said was born in New York City one month after 9/11 — as an "extremely social person," talented athlete and "natural leader" who "cares deeply about others and helping them grow."

She said he turned 22 in captivity on Oct. 14, 2023.

"Imagine over nine months not knowing whether your son is alive, waking up every morning praying that he too is still waking up every morning," she said, as the crowd broke out in another chant.

Omer's parents noted they are far from alone. Over 1,200 people in Israel were killed in Hamas' attack, and 45 of them were American citizens. Omer is one of eight American hostages — and 120 total — believed to still be in Gaza, his dad said.

"Where is the outrage?" Ronen asked. "This was not merely an attack on Israel, this was and remains an attack on Americans."

He said Trump called them personally right after the attack to express his support for the American hostages, and called for the public's support to "end this crisis and bring all the hostages back home," kicking off another round of chants to that effect.

His mom ended with a message for her son: "Omer, we love you, we won't stop fighting for you."

Vivek Ramaswamy stopped by NPR's special coverage booth on Wednesday night, giving an exclusive interview with NPR's Susan Davis to talk about his thoughts on J.D. Vance and the future of the Republican party.

Ramaswamy opened with remarks about his relationship with Vance, calling him a good friend and father.

"He's a friend and someone I know in a more personal way," Ramaswamy said. "He's as good of a father as he is a friend."

Ramaswamy added that while the two disagree on policy, he appreciates Vance's contributions to the Trump ticket.

"He's an American dream story like me," Ramaswamy said. "He has a policy vision for the country that makes it more accessible."

Davis questioned Ramaswamy on Vance's past derogatory comments toward Trump, but Ramaswamy said it was a strength rather than a weakness.

"He has genuinely evolved in his views," Ramaswamy said. "We may not believe the same thing we did today as we did years ago... we need people who didn't vote for Trump in 2020."

Davis finished the interview by asking about Ramaswamy's thoughts on the future of the party and young voters.

"A lot of people in my generation didn't have the American Dream available to them as promised," Ramaswamy said. "With your own hard work and dedication, you can live the American Dream in the way I have and J.D. have."

"People are hungry to be part of something bigger than themselves, but they can't answer what it means to be an American," Ramaswamy added.

The screens in the room played a pre-produced video of interviews with people whose relatives — namely, their children — were among the 13 U.S. service members killed in the U.S.' withdrawal from Afghanistan in 2021.

The family members spoke disapprovingly of Biden, saying he checked his watch multiple times during the ceremony for those killed and gave off a sense that he did not want to be there. The crowd booed loudly when he was shown onscreen.

The gold star families then walked out onstage, carrying pictures of their children. The crowd chanted "USA!"

Several then spoke about how Trump hosted them for a day at his golf club in Bedminster, saying he knew their children's names and stories "and spoke to us in a way that made us feel understood, like he knew our kids."

As one parent talked about how Trump made her feel less alone in her grief, someone in the crowd shouted "you're not alone," and others joined in clapping.

At one moment, the crowd chanted "never forget." Many remained standing for minutes as multiple speakers shared their stories and tears at the podium.

The withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan is widely considered a low point — and a turning point — for the Biden administration, which officially blames the conditions created by Trump's administration.

One common critique from the parents was that Biden has not said the names of the 13 soldiers killed on that day in August.

Herman Lopez, whose son was killed, went down the list onstage, pausing as the crowd clapped between each one and repeated their names out loud:

Marine Corps Staff Sgt. Darin T. Hoover, 31, of Salt Lake City, Utah.

Marine Corps Sgt. Johanny Rosario Pichardo, 25, of Lawrence, Mass.

Marine Corps Sgt. Nicole L. Gee, 23, of Sacramento, Calif.

Marine Corps Cpl. Hunter Lopez, 22, of Indio, Ca.

Marine Corps Cpl. Daegan W. Page, 23, of Omaha, Neb.

Marine Corps Cpl. Humberto A. Sanchez, 22, of Logansport, Ind.

Marine Corps Lance Cpl. David L. Espinoza, 20, of Rio Bravo, Texas.

Marine Corps Lance Cpl. Jared M. Schmitz, 20, of St. Charles, Miss.

Marine Corps Lance Cpl. Rylee J. McCollum, 20, of Jackson, Wyo.

Marine Corps Lance Cpl. Dylan R. Merola, 20, of Rancho Cucamonga, Calif.

Marine Corps Lance Cpl. Kareem M. Nikoui, 20, of Norco, Calif.

Navy Hospitalman Maxton W. Soviak, 22, of Berlin Heights, Ohio.

Army Staff Sgt. Ryan C. Knauss, 23, of Corryton, Tenn.

Read more about the late service members here.

As the couple spoke, the crowd burst into a loud chant of "Joe must go."

Alicia Lopez spoke emotionally of the couples' other son now serving in the Army, saying "we do not trust Joe Biden with his life" and urging for people to join them in voting for Trump to lead the military and the country.

The intense moment is likely to resonate personally with Biden, who speaks often (to the disappointment of those onstage) of his late son Beau, a military veteran.

Kimberly Guilfoyle, whose enthusiastic delivery of "the best is yet to come" became one of the defining moments (and memes) of the 2020 RNC, returned to the stage at a similar decibel — and wearing a similar shade of red.

Guilfoyle, a former Fox News host who has been engaged to Donald Trump Jr. since 2020, spoke immediately after the former president sat down in the audience.

"I stand before you tonight more convinced than ever: this is the most important election in our lifetime," she said emphatically. "And that is why we must elect President Donald John Trump."

She painted the election as a choice between safety or chaos, wealth or poverty, national sovereignty or open borders, American weakness — or greatness.

"Donald Trump will once again make our country strong, safe and prosperous," Guilfoyle declared. "He will make America feared by our adversaries and respected by our friends. And most importantly he will always put America first."

Guilfoyle took a few digs at Biden, calling him unfit for office and saying, "all Joe had to do was leave it alone and take a nap, but Joe just couldn't help himself."

"Joe Biden can not lead America; he cannot even lead himself off a stage," she added.

Guilfoyle was married to California's current governor, Democrat Gavin Newsom, for five years in the early aughts. Newsom, who has defended Biden including in the post-debate spin room, is widely seen as a contender for the presidential race in 2028.

Guilfoyle said "powerful elites in the swamp will say anything to crush and destroy the America First movement."

At the end of her speech, Guilfoyle urged the crowd to "rise up" for Trump, and the audience got to their feet.

"Ladies and gentlemen, lovers of freedom and the American dream, this is our last chance to make America great again," she cried out, as the crowd roared. Trump also gave a standing ovation, and raised his fist in approval.

Donald Trump’s first post to social media following Saturday’s assassination attempt was this: “It was God alone who prevented the unthinkable from happening. We will fear not, but instead remain resilient in our faith and defiant in the face of wickedness.”

Just hours after the shooting on July 13, Trump’s supporters also began using religious language to describe the shooting, which killed one and wounded two others.

Speaking on Fox News Saturday night, Republican politician and businessman Vivek Ramaswamy said: “I personally believe that God intervened today, not just on behalf of President Trump but on behalf of our country.”

And Texas Gov. Greg Abbott, also a Republican, made these remarks during a press conference about cleanup after hurricane Beryl: “Trump is truly blessed by the hand of God being able to evade being assassinated.”

That theme has continued this week at the Republican National Convention, where Sen. Tim Scott of South Carolina used similar language on the opening night.

“If you didn't believe in miracles before Saturday, you better be believing right now,” Scott said as delegates in Milwaukee burst into applause. “Our God still saves. He still delivers and he still sets free. Because on Saturday, the devil came to Pennsylvania holding a rifle. But an American lion got back up on his feet.”

But others who study religion find this talk of divine intervention and blessing both telling and troubling.

Kellyanne Conway, Trump's first campaign manger in 2016 and senior counsel in the White House in the years that followed, strode onstage and greeted the crowd with a "Good evening, patriots."

The Trump adviser-turned-Fox News contributor is not officially affiliated with his campaign this time around, but spoke of the sacrifices he and his family made to run for president.

"My relationship with Mr. Trump was forged under fire in a foxhole in 2016, after he asked me to be his campaign manager," she said. "We had no idea that he was making history as the first successful presidential nominee ever to tap a woman to lead a campaign."

She credited Trump with elevating women throughout his career, from New York real estate to the White House, apparently eliding his felony conviction related to hush money payments to adult film star Stormy Daniels and liability in a defamation case for denying E. Jean Carroll's claims of sexual assault.

Conway recounted looking around at an early senior staff meeting and seeing four other women, with 19 children between them.

"Show me a C-Suite in America where five working moms of 19 young children could have the highest rank in the company and work alongside the president," she said to cheers.

Conway said Trump "sees what's best and what's possible for millions of Americans," and, to the crowd, "sees you for who you are."

She praised Trump for making sacrifices to run again, when he could be spending time at his own golf course and with his children, grandchildren and wife (whom she described as "extraordinary, elegant, beautiful, brilliant," as the crowd clapped enthusiastically).

"He does not need to do this, but we need him to do this," Conway added.

She addressed those who say they want Trump's policies, but not his personality, and said people can't get one without the other. She urged supporters to talk to people who may be skeptical or cynical.

Conway said in 2024 there should be "no more hidden undercover Trump voters."

"It's time to put that flag on your front porch, that red hat on your head, because we don't cave and we don't cower and we do not capitulate," she said. "Instead we get up, we show up, we stand up and we speak up."

Thomas Homan, the former acting director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, lambasted Biden for making the border less secure and vowed that Trump would do the opposite.

Homan, a former border control agent who served as acting director from January 2017 to June 2018, said all six presidents he worked with over his 34-year career pledged to secure the border, but Trump was the only one who actually did.

"He created the most secure border in our history, and that's a stone-cold fact," he said. "And guess what? He's gonna do it again."

Homan pointed to statistics about illegal immigration dropping and deportations reaching record highs under Trump.

He then contrasted those results with some of the Biden administration's immigration actions, like canceling the "Remain in Mexico" policy and proposing amnesty for millions of undocumented immigrants — and blamed such policies for a record number of women being sex trafficked, Americans dying of fentanyl and suspected terrorists crossing into the U.S.

The southern border did see a record high amount of people crossing into the U.S. without authorization under Biden, though those numbers have greatly decreased since January.

At the Republican National Convention in Milwaukee Tuesday night, Republicans promised to “make America safe once again.” They say crime is up nationwide. Is it?

Homan then directly addressed the undocumented immigrants whom he said Biden released into the country against federal law:

"You better start packing now," he said, as the crowd roared with applause. "'Cause you're going home."

He then spoke to criminal cartels in Mexico, which he said have killed more Americans than "every terrorist organization in the world combined." He said Trump would designate them as such if reelected.

"He's gonna wipe you off the face of the Earth," Homan said. "You're done. You're done!"

The crowd cheered, with many spectators waving "Mass deportation now" signs.

Former Trump trade adviser Peter Navarro got out of prison earlier on Wednesday and urged people to vote for Trump to avoid persecution by the U.S. government.

Navarro had been in prison for four months for refusing to comply with a congressional subpoena for documents and testimony tied to the January 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol. His remarks continued a convention theme of the weaponization of justice, similar to the speech of Savannah Chrisley on Tuesday.

Navarro blamed all three branches of government — the executive, legislative and judiciary — for his sentence. He said Trump supporters needed to control all of government to avoid unfair treatment, since all three branches helped put him in prison.

Last week, a federal appeals court ordered Navarro to surrender to a federal prison in Florida on March 19 to serve his four-month sentence.

Trump has also argued that the Justice Department is politically influenced — something Attorney General Merrick Garland has fiercely disputed — and must be restructured.

"Yes indeed, this morning I did walk out of a federal prison in Miami. Joe Biden and his department of injustice put me there," Navarro told attendees at the convention to chants and applause. "If they can come for me, if they can come for Donald Trump, they can come for you."

"If we don’t control our government, their government will control us," he added.

Navarro cast his disputes with Congress as challenges to the Constitution’s separation of powers. But judges found no evidence that Trump had formally asserted executive privilege to block cooperation with lawmakers. Steve Bannon, another Trump-era official, is now in prison for a similar charge.

Navarro said Biden's policies created an environment of fear, contrasting it with a more equitable system under Trump as president.

"When politics fail, the investigations and persecutions begin," he said, adding that the government was also going after Catholics, anti-abortion-rights groups and parents.

"I went to prison so you won’t have to. I am your wake up call," he said to cheers from the audience.

This week's convention has all the trappings of a typical party convention: enthusiastic delegates, flamboyant attire, a cover band. But, like the 2016 and 2020 Republican conventions, past GOP presidential and vice presidential nominees (other than Trump himself) have chosen not to attend.

President George W. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney are both outspoken critics of Donald Trump. In a 2021 interview, Bush criticized the party he used to lead, which he said has become "isolationist, protectionist and, to a certain extent, nativist."

Cheney has gone further. In a 2022 campaign ad for his daughter Liz, a major Trump antagonist during her time in Congress, the former vice president said that "in our nation's 246-year history, there has never been an individual who is a greater threat to our republic than Donald Trump."

He Knows It

Mitt Romney, the party's 2012 presidential nominee, now a senator from Utah, was the first lawmaker ever to vote to remove a president of the same party during Trump's second impeachment trial.

And Mike Pence, who served as Trump's vice president, ran against his former ticket-mate during this year's presidential primary contest.

According to the congressional testimony of a former White House aide, Trump said that his then-vice president — who faced chants of "hang Mike Pence" from January 6th insurrectionists — deserved the ire of the rioters for refusing to support Trump's attempts to remain in power despite losing the election.

In their stead, the party has filled speaking slots with Trump loyalists and converts — who almost uniformly support the former president's lies about the 2020 election and attacks on the justice system in the wake of his 34 felony convictions in New York state and roughly 60 pending federal felony charges.

In the days since the alleged attempted assassination of former President Donald Trump, attention has turned to uncovering the motives of the gunman.

One of the ways the FBI has attempted to learn more about 20-year-old Matthew Crooks, the assailant, is by unlocking his phone, which the agency confirmed Monday it had done. No details were made public about what, if anything, was found on it.

In events like this, the FBI turns to service providers like Cellebrite, an Israel-based intelligence firm that sells tools to law enforcement to access smart phones.

Cracking into a phone can be a game of cat and mouse due to upgrades and updates that phone manufacturers introduce, Cellebrite's chief marketing officer David Gee told NPR's Morning Edition.

A phone can serve as a "digital witness," he added, and his company's tech is continually changing to enhance law enforcement's ability to access data on a device.

Gee said Cellebrite's technology can be used to access and extract information from a smart phone.

In "90% of crimes today, the assailant has a phone with them. And so the extraction of that information and then the decoding and processing of that information — it can be photos, it can be location data, it could be encrypted messages — all of the above are extracted and then analyzed and in many cases de-encrypted for use," Gee said.

Cellebrite, Gee said, only works with law enforcement and the technology is used only once a warrant has been obtained.

The Washington Post reported Tuesday that sources close to the FBI investigation say Cellebrite's tech was used to access Crooks' phone.

Rep. Ronny Jackson of Texas, who served as Trump's physician before getting elected to Congress, took to the podium tonight to make the case that the former president is fit to hold the job again.

Jackson, who was elected to the U.S. House in 2020, listed his credentials: He served in the U.S. Navy for 25 years, including as an emergency medicine doctor and combat physician in Iraq, before spending 14 years as a White House physician.

"But most importantly, I served as the appointed physician to the greatest president that this country has ever had, Donald J. Trump," he added. "And now I can say I served a president who literally took a bullet for our country."

He said Trump's will to keep fighting for the country, "even after getting shot down, will go down as an all-time moment in American history."

And he contrasted Trump's strength to that of Biden, saying he knows firsthand that being president is an "unrelenting, 24/7 job" that requires people to make clear decisions at a moment's notice. He said Biden is not up to the task.

"Let's not kid ourselves, Father Time has not been kind to Joe Biden," he said, adding that foreign adversaries won't "respect his 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. schedule."

Jackson blamed Biden's staff and family for what he called a lack of compassion, and for not prioritizing his health and the country's security. He said Vice President Harris — mispronouncing her first name — is "as unfit in character as Joe Biden is in body and mind."

"There is simply too much at stake to have someone who can barely shuffle to a podium be the one that is responsible for the safety and security of our country," Jackson said.

He urged people to support Trump, whom he said will be respected by allies and feared by enemies.

Jackson returned to his role as doctor over the weekend, examining and dressing Trump's ear the day after he was shot at a rally.

“The bullet took a little bit off the top of his ear in an area that, just by nature, bleeds like crazy,” Jackson later told the New York Times. “The dressing’s bulked up a bit because you need a bit of absorbent. You don’t want to be walking around with bloody gauze on his ear.”

Former President Donald Trump has appointed his family members to key positions in both his political and business ventures. The RNC has been no different. Here’s what we know about the Trump family and what they’ve been up to for the last few years:

Just to recap: Trump has five children: Donald Jr., Ivanka, Eric, Tiffany and Barron, and 10 grandchildren.

Donald Jr., Tiffany and Eric have been seen at the RNC this week. Eric’s wife Lara — who is also the co-chair of the RNC this year — gave the keynote speech last night.

Ivanka and her husband Jared Kushner have yet to make an appearance at the RNC this year, despite them both serving as senior advisers during Trump’s presidency.

Ivanka’s absence may be due to a statement she released on social media in 2022 that explained how she would be taking a step back from politics to focus on her family.

“I do not plan to be involved in politics,” she said on Instagram Stories. “While I will always love and support my father, going forward I will do so outside the political arena.”

Trump has been married to his wife Melania since 2005. She has also been absent from her husband’s current presidential campaign. Her office did release a statement in May, a day after her son Barron's name appeared on a list of Florida delegates, that he would not be a delegate after all due to “prior commitments”. Barron was seen in Miami last week at a campaign rally for his father.

When asked about Ivanka and Melania in an interview with CBS earlier today, Eric said they "will be coming in." One possibility is for when Trump formally accepts the GOP nomination on Thursday night.

Trump’s 17-year-old granddaughter, Kai, is expected to take the RNC stage tonight along with her father Donald Trump Jr. and Kimberly Guilfoyle, (who is Donald Trump Jr.'s fiancée.)

When Trump's 2024 running mate takes the stage at the RNC tonight, his previous VP won't be in the crowd — or presumably even in the state.

Former Vice President Mike Pence is not attending the RNC this year, a fact he's made pointedly clear on the social media platform X.

On Tuesday, he posted a series of photos of himself and his wife Karen fishing and riding horses, writing, "Nothing like Montana in the Summertime!"

On Wednesday afternoon, he posted photos from what appeared to be a charity event in Fort Wayne, Ind., calling it a "Truly Inspiring Day."

Pence may not be at the convention, but his name has certainly been invoked this week, especially by Democrats critical of Trump's latest VP pick.

The chair of Biden's reelection campaign said Trump picked J.D. Vance because he’ll “do what Mike Pence wouldn’t on Jan. 6: bend over backwards to enable Trump and his extreme MAGA agenda."

Vance has said he believes the 2020 election was stolen from Trump, and earlier this year downplayed the severity of the Jan. 6 Capitol attack, including doubting Pence's claims that his life was in danger (despite some in the mob chanting to hang him).

The day after Trump was shot at a rally, Pence — who has not endorsed him this time around — issued a statement on X condemning political violence in general.

The following day, the first of the convention, Pence reposted a tweet from Tim Chapman, the president of the conservative nonprofit he founded, in which Chapman said "Day one at the RNC revealed the challenges ahead for conservatives."

It’s been a big week for Trump-oriented and MAGA-themed vendors at the RNC in Milwaukee. Just outside the hard security perimeter, Antwon Williams’ 365campaign.com booth has been selling MAGA buttons, apparel and other merchandise. Williams, a Republican from Tulsa, OK, has been a fan of Donald Trump since the beginning and has followed him on the campaign trail for years.

“You’re gonna have all the (vendor) stands, but you’re not gonna have one who takes this as serious as us – 365 Campaign,” he says. “We’re kind of a big deal.

”The best seller this week? A shirt with the message: “I’m voting for a convicted felon.” Another shirt at the booth features the words “convicted felon” forming the number 47. If the former president wins in November, he would become the nation’s 47th president. “They want to put him in orange, so we put him in orange in the proper way,” Williams says.

Billy Pollard of Albany, GA has been selling Trump stickers while sporting a “Women for Trump” hat. Pollard says seeing all his favorite Fox News personalities has been the highlight of the convention so far. “They’re superstars -- like the singers and everybody else,” Pollard says.

WUWM also spotted posters for “Trump Cereal” all over the convention grounds. The boxes show a colorful drawing of a smiling Trump holding a bowl and a spoon. Next to the image is the message: “Greatness in every bowl.”

Yet another vendor, called Trump Sneakers, is selling “FIGHT FIGHT FIGHT” high-tops. The sides of the shoes have a photo of Trump after the assassination attempt last weekend — his cheek streaked with blood — defiantly raising his fist (these shoes have to be ordered online).

Anyone who's tuned into the RNC so far will likely recognize Sixwire, the five-member house band that's brought an enthusiastic series of classic rock covers to the convention floor — including a surprise extended performance after an abrupt teleprompter malfunction on Night 1.

The group has entertained viewers with renditions of such hits as "Life is a Highway," "All Star," "What I Like About You," "Don't Stop Believin'" and "Reelin' In The Years," among other "dad jams."

And while it's only recorded one album (for Warner Brothers, back in 2002), it's not just a random country cover band. Here's what to know about Sixwire:

The Nashville-based band's members include lead singer and guitarist Andy Childs, keyboardist and singer Steve Hornbeak, bass guitarist John Howard, guitarist and singer Steve Mandile and drummer Chuck Tilley.

The band gets its name from a slang term for guitar, which its management agency calls "a fitting name to a band fronted by 3 guitarists."

Sixwire has served as the house band on multiple reality TV shows, including the USA Network’s Nashville Star, Fox's Next Great American Band and CMT's Next Superstar. They also played as the backing band for Connie Britton's character on the ABC Drama Nashville.

The band has performed at other high-profile events, including Super Bowls 51, 54 and 56, the Daytona 500 and the NHL All-Star Game. Their management says they were also ESPN’s "first ever 'house band'" for the 2019 NFL Draft, which took place in Nashville.

Over the years, its individual members have played in the bands for such stars as Faith Hill, Dolly Parton and Lee Greenwood, who took to the convention floor on Monday to perform his own hit "God Bless the U.S.A." as Trump made his first RNC appearance.

Sixwire is the main event as far as live music goes, but it's not the only artist bringing tunes to the convention hall.

Country singer Chris Janson, who performed at the 2016 RNC, appeared onstage on the first night to sing some of his songs including "Buy Me a Boat." And, of course, there was the pre-produced music video for the parody rap song "Trump Trump Baby" on Tuesday night.

The RNC also created a Spotify playlist back in April, which it called "a weekly installment of carefully curated music to get you pumped for the GOP Convention."

"Our first #GOPlaylist will bring you back to a time when the border was secure, gas was cheap, and life was good," it said on X, formerly Twitter, at the time.

The playlist no longer appears on Spotify. But as Rolling Stone reported, it heavily featured artists who have publicly criticized Trump over the years, including The Weeknd, Dua Lipa, Drake and Daddy Yankee.

The management and estates of a number of musical artists, from Queen to Bruce Springsteen to Aerosmith to the Village People, have denied Trump the rights to use their songs at his campaign events. (Some, like the Rolling Stones and Tom Petty, have even threatened legal action.)

That didn't stop the RNC from airing a montage of Trump dancing to the Village People's "Y.M.C.A" earlier this week, though.

One question about a potential second Trump presidency is whether Congress would pass — and Trump would sign — a national abortion ban, following the decision by the Supreme Court to overturn Roe v. Wade in 2022.

Eric Trump was asked this week in an interview with NBC whether several changes to the Republican platform — including the GOP dropping its call for a federal abortion ban — indicated that his father was moving to the center on certain social issues, such as abortion and same-sex marriage.

“I think he’s always been there on those issues, to tell you the truth. I think that’s reflective of who my father is and what he believes in,” Eric Trump said. “This country has real holes in the roof, and you’ve got to fix those holes, and you’ve got to stop worrying about the little spot on the wall in the basement.”

In a statement, Brent Leatherwood, president of the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission, criticized the recent changes to the GOP’s platform.

“Christians must be clear-eyed about the challenges we are facing in our wider culture,” Leatherwood said. “Just this week the RNC’s national platform was changed to be ‘more inclusive’ of LGBTQ beliefs, backing away from long-held positions related to biblical views on marriage and the family, as well as the removal of its decades old inclusion of support for federal pro-life legislation.”

In response to Eric Trump’s comments, Abby Johnson, CEO and founder of And Then There Were None and ProLove Ministries, said: "You need a solid foundation to fix the entire building. A wishy-washy foundation often leads to the collapse of the entire structure and it's my view that the GOP needs to stand firm against abortion, protect life at all stages of development, and reject compromise."

Trump supported a 20-week federal abortion ban as president, but said on the campaign trail earlier this year that he wouldn’t sign a federal abortion ban if elected to a second term.

Kathy Doyle is an RNC delegate from Pennsylvania. She says she flew over Lake Michigan but will probably not visit the lakefront because sightseeing around Milwaukee “hasn’t been encouraged.”

She says delegates have packed schedules and have been advised not to draw attention to themselves. “I think just for our own protection, because of a lot of the political rhetoric that's out there that triggers some people, and they perceive people as real threats. So they may cause harm to them. [In the security zone] we feel safe. While we're here, you can see there's police officers on every corner and also in our hotels, just for our protection. ... It’s not the city, it's not the state, it's just the event. It's considered high risk."

Tara Peters, an RNC delegate from Missouri, has been to the Harley-Davidson Museum and has explored by foot. "You have a beautiful town," she says. "You have all been extremely over-the-top kind. People are being very gracious. ... So, I don't know if you guys are getting paid or you got a really big pep talk before we got here, but you are rocking it."

She says she hasn't yet tasted Wisconsin cheese, but "I promise you I will have cheese before I leave Wisconsin."

The co-chairs of the Democratic National Convention's rules committee said in a letter Wednesday that they plan to move ahead with an early virtual vote sometime in early August.

Leah Daughtry and Gov. Tim Walz of Minnesota said it was the "wisest approach" to make sure the Democratic candidates are on the ballot in every state.

The DNC is not trying to "fast-track" the vote, but rather ensure that the Democratic candidates are on the ballot in Ohio and other states, Leah Daughtry and Gov. Tim Walz of the convention's rules committee explained in their Wednesday letter.

"Unless Democratic nominees for President and Vice President are selected and certified to Ohio by August 7, we are likely to face litigation about the efficacy of our filings," they said. And they said there are a string of other early deadlines for ballot access paperwork that follow, such as Washington state on Aug. 20.

Texas Rep. Lloyd Doggett, the first lawmaker to publicly call for Biden to step aside, argued in a written statement on Wednesday that the nomination should be formalized at the convention.

"Those so eager to overly protect President Biden ignore his own words inviting anyone questioning his nomination to do so at the convention. Short-circuiting the normal convention process jeopardizes the White House, Senate and House," Doggett said.

Read more: Why Democrats may vote on Biden’s nomination before the convention

When the announcement came at the RNC this week that Trump’s running mate would be Sen. J.D. Vance of Ohio, the newly minted candidate was standing on the convention floor alongside his wife, Usha Chilukuri Vance.

She met her now-husband at Yale Law School, where they were both students and took classes together before starting to date. They married in 2014 and have three children.

In a campaign ad for Vance’s senatorial campaign in 2022, she called J.D. “an incredible father” and “my best friend.”

Usha Vance, 38, was raised by Indian immigrant parents in San Diego, according to the Associated Press. She earned her bachelor’s degree from Yale University and her master’s of philosophy from the University of Cambridge through the Gates Cambridge Scholarship.

After graduating from law school, she clerked for Judge Brett Kavanaugh from 2014 to 2015, when he was on the U.S. Court of Appeals, and for U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts from 2017 to 2018.

She became an attorney at the national law firm Munger Tolles & Olson but has reportedly left the firm following Trump's selection of her husband as his running mate.

Usha Vance was a registered Democrat until at least 2014, The New York Times reported.

In an interview with Fox News last month, she said of the possibility of her husband becoming Trump's pick for vice president that she wasn’t “raring to change anything about our lives right now, but I believe in J.D. and I really love him, and so we’ll just sort of see what happens with our life. We’re open.”

Lara Trump, the daughter-in-law of former President Donald Trump, ended the second night of the Republican National Convention by repeating calls for voters to coalesce behind Trump.

Trump's daughter-in-law, who is also a co-chair of the RNC, has taken on an increasingly sizable role in Republican politics.

Similar to remarks from Arkansas Gov. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, Lara Trump intertwined both praise for the former president's record and personal anecdotes of who he is as a member of the Trump family. She also spoke at great length about how she and her family reacted to the news of the assassination attempt on Trump.

"Our family has faced our fair share of death threats... none of that prepares you as a daughter-in-law to watch in real time someone try to kill a person you love," she said. "None of that prepares you as a mother to quickly reach for the remote and turn your young children away from the screen so that they're not witness to something that scars the memory of their grandpa for the rest of their lives."

Towards the end of her remarks, Lara Trump also highlighted Trump's decision to hold his fist up and mouth the word "fight" after being shot.

The remarks caused the audience to chant "fight" repeatedly. The chant by supporters has been heard throughout the convention.

Though the VIP booth was flanked by several of Trump's children, missing was former first lady Melania Trump. Typically, the nominee's spouse speaks on the second night of the program.

However, last week it was reported that Melania Trump is expected to attend at some point during the convention.

Florida Sen. Marco Rubio was among many of Trump’s former political rivals-turned-allies who spoke at the RNC on Tuesday.

Like many others, Rubio talked about the attempted assassination against Trump this past weekend.

“We were brought to the precipice of the abyss and, by the hand of God, reminded of what truly matters in our lives and in our country,” he said.

The relationship between the two Floridians has gone through ups and downs over the years.

As fellow candidates vying for the Republican nomination during the 2016 presidential election, they traded several personal insults. During one debate, Rubio made comments about the size of Trump’s hands. Trump often made comments about Rubio’s height, nicknaming him “Little Marco.”

Rubio’s presidential bid had been a favorite among the Republican establishment. His campaign focused on spending and tax cuts, immigration and repealing the Affordable Care Act.

Like other establishment favorites, though, Rubio was defeated by Trump. Since then, the ice between the two men has thawed and Rubio has become a vocal ally of Trump’s.

“By giving voice to everyday Americans, President Trump has not just transformed our party, he has inspired a movement,” he said Tuesday.

Rubio also spoke of Corey Comperatore, who was shot and killed during the assassination attempt this past weekend. He called him a “hero” and said he represented many Americans who support the former president.

“These are the Americans who wear the red hats and wait for hours under a blazing sun to hear Trump speak,” he said. “And what they want, what they ask for is not hateful or extreme. What they want is good jobs and lower prices. They want borders that are secure.”

Two days into the Republican National Convention, the Trump campaign continued to tout unity within the Republican Party.

Yet on the floor of the RNC, ahead of a packed evening of speeches, former House Speaker Kevin McCarthy and Florida Rep. Matt Gaetz had a tense exchange.

While McCarthy took part in an interview with CNN, Gaetz walked up to the former speaker and yelled comments at him.

"I was asking him what his speaking slot was," Rep. Gaetz told NPR soon after the confrontation. "Since he was trying to slander me in some interview to CNN, I thought maybe he should share those views on the stage. Because if he did, he’d get booed off the stage in a crowd like this."

Gaetz, a longtime critic of McCarthy, notably led the movement to oust him as speaker last year.

When asked about party unity, Gaetz doubled down on his criticism of McCarthy.

"I think we are doing great work to unify the party," Rep. Gaetz said. "I think Kevin is mostly here because he has FOMO."

Later on the floor, McCarthy brushed off the interaction when asked about it, adding he didn't know it was Gaetz while it happened.

"I just assumed someone was asking for a selfie or something," McCarthy said. "Afterwards, I saw it, it's totally in his head — the poor guy — he's losing his mind," he added.

McCarthy resigned from Congress at the end of the year, shortly after losing his speakership.

The former speaker was also asked about party unity, and highlighted Tuesday's speaker list.

"The Republican Party is more united than ever before," he said. "Ron DeSantis and Nikki Haley are here saying, 'Join together.'"

Former reality TV star Savannah Chrisley used her real estate tycoon parents' incarceration to question the fairness of the federal judicial system.

"You may have seen my family on TV; but for the past decade, we've been consumed with a different kind of drama," she said during a segment at the Republican National Convention on a night dedicated to safety, including criminal justice.

Her comments mirror those of Trump, who accused prosecutors of bringing indictments against him due to a political agenda and vowed to reshape the Department of Justice if he is elected again. Among many cases against him, he faces criminal charges in Fulton County, Ga