aaamusic | On 14, Mar 2022

Queens of the Stone Age (QOTSA) is a Californian alternative rock band that formed in 1996. The creative force behind much of the band’s music is the founding member, vocalist, and guitarist, Josh Homme.

Over the years, the band has sold over 3.2 million records worldwide and achieved notable commercial success following the release of their best-selling 2002 album, Songs for the Deaf.

So, what do you need to know about their melodic and often psychedelic alternative rock sound?

Let’s take a look at the most significant QOTSA albums, members, and their association with the late-great grunge pioneer, Mark Lanegan.

How Did QOTSA Form?

During the early part of the 1990s, Josh Homme had notable success as the guitarist for the band Kyuss. When Kyuss broke up, he briefly joined Screaming Trees as a touring member before forming Gamma Ray with Matt Cameron from Soundgarden and Pearl Jam and Val Conner from Screaming Trees.

In 1996, Gamma Ray released a self-titled EP. Soon after this, the band was forced to change its name to Queens of the Stone Age following a threat of legal action from a German metal band also called Gamma Ray.

Queens of the Stone Age Members

Queens of the Stone Age has had a revolving lineup since its formation. The only member that’s been with the band throughout has been Homme, however, other notable members have included Mark Lanegan, the lead singer of grunge band, Screaming Trees, and Dave Grohl of Foo Fighters and Nirvana fame.

Today, the lineup includes:

Josh Homme – Vocals and guitar

Troy Van Leeuwen – Guitar and keyboard

Dean Fertita – Keyboards and guitar

Michael Shuman – Bass

Jon Theodore – Drums

Other past members have included Homme’s ex-Kyuss bandmates; Nick Oliveri and Alfredo Hernández, along with Alain Johannes, Joey Castillo, and Natasha Shneider.

Queens of the Stone Age Albums

Since forming, there have been seven QOTSA albums. These are:

Queens of the Stone Age (1998)

Rated R (2000)

Songs for the Deaf (2002)

Lullabies to Paralyze (2005)

Era Vulgaris (2007)

…Like Clockwork (2013)

Villains (2017)

This fansite for Queens of the Stone Ageis packed with band trivia and information about QOTSA tours.

Mark Lanegan’s Involvement With QOTSA

From 1984 to 2000, Lanegan was the lead singer for the pioneering grunge band Screaming Trees. While they helped pioneer the Seatle sound, their biggest success came in the early 90s following the explosion of the grunge scene in the wake of Nirvana’s meteoric rise to fame.

Lanegan first appeared on QOTSA’s second album, Rated R, contributing vocals to several tracks. He would go on to become a permanent bandmember for the third and fourth albums, Songs for the Deaf and Lullabies to Paralyze.

Although Lanegan left the band soon after, he would feature on their subsequent two albums and frequently perform live with them.

Lanegan recently passed away at his home in Ireland. The cause of death has not been reported.

The Future of QOTSA

QOTSA show no sign of slowing down. Although it’s been a few years since their last album, the band is said to be working on new material.

Check out the rest of the site for a wide range of music-related articles.