Last i heard about him is that his club had finally awknowleded their fault and that they had justed picked up his injury in a last scanning,that the guy's muscle fabric was so strong it went unditected when he was offered to Cruz Azul and River,but i havent heard anything about Cruz Azul signing him for the apertura

Haha well, I learned how to speak Spanish from my Mexican soccer friends in GDL, so what can i say? I used to get in trouble in class at uag all of the time because a lot of times I didn't even know what I was saying was inappropriate!!

4 Things:

-1. Arzuaga is not returning to CRUZ AZUL, he failed 2 medical exams prior to CRUZ AZUL's (with River Plate and Santos (Brazil) with the same knee problem.

-2. Lets not forget that along with the Mexican NT players, we could lose Denis Caniza, as well, to the Paraguayan NT. Making our whole starting defensive line-up disappear!

-3. CRUZ AZUL is a team that has been screwed more by the goal post than by the opponents keeper. I think were cursed fellas by the GOAL POST GODS!!! But i dont think Corona had a "miracle game" but he definately was inspired that night!

-4. TecosGirl, normally id be upset with anybody fluanting when their team beats CRUZ AZUL, but theres something about a "white" US girl who loves Guadalajara, Mexico (thats where i was born), Spanish language, and MEXICAN FUTBOL (probably as much as i do) than I cant get myself to be upset! Welcome

Im such a liar, i meant 5 things.

-5. Carmona/Galindo tested negative in the Mexican Federation labs, and are now waiting for the official lab results from UCLA Medical Center. Lets jut hope they havent been eating any cupcakes with poppy seeds.

So, since I don't have cable,

I am currently not able

to watch any match or game

which, in truth, is quite lame.

But reading the news on a site

has made me think that it may well might

be Fonseca's year to aid

Azul to finally win and, with trophy, get paid.

In my humble belief,

it would be quite a relief

to know that our friend Kikin

will be top scorer and king.

If you'd be so kind

as to reveal your mind,

do you believe in my wish

to see Kikin as top scorer

this year and beat out all

the others and hopefully

finally get the real recognition he deserves...ish?

He certainly is on fire that's for sure,he's scored on every match of this clausura and he's impressed me just as much as tecos has in these 4 matches.It's been awhile since a Mexican player won el titulo de goleo in our League which that title's being dominated mostly by foreginers in the last couple of tournaments,it'd would be great if Kikin stayed fit in good form and wins it this year and goes to the WC having winning it would be a great incentive.

Yes, I would like for him to win it. The problem may be is when he is on top they may pull him out for the WC, and then someone else would beat him out. I think it would be very hard to score enough goals to be pulled out in late april and still win the titulo de goleo.

There are a few players who have started out this season great when it comes to scoring goals,Galaz Ochoa and kikin have had a great start,when we look back at the apertura there was a few players who ended up with only 12 i think it was Kleber,Gaitan and Vuoso i might be missing another one.

With this good start this year seems a bit more promising when it comes to el titulo de goleo,hope Kikin takes it,and if he doesnt i'd sure like Ochoa to take it, as to why he isnt even called for a friendly to the MNT is beyond me.

What is it with CRUZ AZUL and those freakin' poles!!! Im going to email Mizrahi and tell him to start training his players to aim for the poles from now on. At least this way we'll have a 50/50 shot at scoring per shot.

We got Jaguares next week, theyre not scary but can cause problems.

A man of the people

http://espndeportes.espn.go.com/news/story?id=405985

I have really grown to respect Pereyra, it seems he really loves this club and its fans.