A wildfire that broke out in the forests of Arafo, Tenerife – the Canary Island most popular with British visitors – on Tuesday has been described as “out of control” by President of the Canary Islands, Fernando Clavijo. Thousands of residents from nine surrounding municipalities – including Arafo, Candelaria and La Orotava – and around 2,000 animals have been evacuated as a precaution as the fire has advanced towards the capital Santa Cruz, with those in affected areas offered temporary shelter at San Isidro-El Chorrillo Sports Pavilion in El Rosario as well as sports halls in Salesianos and La Perdoma.

By Friday morning, the fire had affected more than 3,797 hectares in a perimeter of 41.9km, with more than 250 firefighters, as well as helicopters and a seaplane deployed to bring the fire under control. However, Municipal Vice President Lope Afonso said that after a calm night on Thursday, “the fire begins to behave like a normal fire, and not like in the previous days”, and that firefighters’ objective was to prevent its spread in the north of the island.

According to the latest information from the Regional Government of the Canary Islands, the areas affected are “mainly in the mountainous areas of Arafo, Candelaria, La Victoria de Acentejo, Santa Úrsula, La Orotava and El Rosario.”

A spokesperson for Tenerife’s tourist office said “the fire is not close to any major tourist destinations or cities on the island, so the situation remains entirely normal at accommodation establishments, beaches and other locations used by tourists in areas near the coast and in the foothills.

“Activities also continue with complete normality at ports, airports and on the roads across the island, except for those leading in to the mountains, which the authorities are asking people not to use given that certain sections are being closed, including the Teide National Park, and certain public and private activities are being suspended.”

However, it is acknowledged that some holiday homes and rural houses have been evacuated close to the fires. The air quality in the municipalities of Güímar, Arafo, Candelaria and El Rosario has been classified as “unfavourable” as a result of the smoke, with those in affected areas advised to avoid staying outside for long periods of time and close doors and windows, putting air conditioning in recirculation mode. Medical-grade masks and eye protection are also recommended for use outside. People in Casco La Esperanza, particularly, are being told to stay indoors and those in the region are advised to stay informed about the development of this fire using official channels for communication:

Canary Islands Regional Government

Regional emergency services

Tenerife island council

Tenerife highways agency

The weather forecast for the north of the island is for continued sun, breezes and highs between 29°C and 32°C over the coming days, with no rain on the horizon.

Holidaymakers due to travel to Tenerife imminently should not cancel their trip proactively, since they risk losing their money. However, if their trip is close to the wildfires they should contact their travel provider at the earliest possibility.

The Foreign Office warns that “causing a forest fire is a criminal offence in Spain, even if unintentional. Make sure cigarette ends are properly extinguished, do not light barbecues and do not leave empty bottles behind. You can be heavily fined for not following the rules against lighting outdoor barbecues in forest areas.” Make sure you know the rules if considering a barbeque.”