A portion of abandoned track on the right-of-way off Route 82. (James Ewinger, The Plain Dealer)

Tangled tracks

AURORA, Ohio – The city is battling Norfolk Southern Railway and FirstEnergy over a railroad right-of-way that slices diagonally through the city.

The land has been idle for years, and Aurora wants to take it by eminent domain. The railroad, however, wants to sell it to FirstEnergy, which wants to erect giant transmission towers there.

The city wants to make the land part of a rail-to-trail system that would run through Mantua and link with a trail network stretching to southeast Ohio.

American Transmission Systems, a FirstEnergy subsidiary, believes the right-of-way is the most expeditious – and least visible – route for a much-needed power line that would reduce the likelihood of a severe power outage.

Aurora officials say there are alternatives, noting that the city of 15,000 has grown up around the idled right of way without trains and without the power lines.

Another view of the track by Route 82, with Aurora's historic Erie Station. Norfolk Southern owns the track, does not want it and got federal regulators to declare it abandoned earlier this year. (James Ewinger, The Plain Dealer)

The city passed an ordinance in June that would allow seizure of the land by eminent domain. The city believes it is worth about $600,000 and is willing to pay fair-market value.

Also joining the clash, meanwhile, is All Aboard Ohio, a non-profit group that advocates for intercity passenger rail service.

Brendan Delay, an attorney for the group, said Friday that the unused line could be restored, even though some of it has been paved over or cut away. Estimates on the cost of restoration range from $3 million to $15 million, but Delay said it can be revived for much less, and can become a vital link to downtown Cleveland and Pittsburgh, as it once was. The idea would be at odds with those of the city, the utility and the railroad.

Delay said his group could go to federal court to appeal the decision by the federal Surface Transportation Board to allow the abandonment.

“But a decision has not been made yet,” he said.

A sign attests to the historic significance of the depot and surrounding area. The Aurora Train Station, also known as Erie Railroad Station, is on the National Register of Historic Places. (James Ewinger, The Plain Dealer)

Though some people have talked about 70-foot steel towers to carry a high-power electric line, FirstEnergy says that it wants to bring in a high-voltage transmission line (69 kilovolts) that would be fastened to 60-foot wood poles.

Doug Colafella, a spokesman for the electric company, said the line is necessary to reduce the likelihood of an outage like one in November that deprived 7,700 residents of electricity for up to 60 hours.

He said the rail corridor provides the ideal place for the power lines because it averages 100 feet in width, which permits easy access for maintenance, is less visible than alternative routes, and will also accommodate the hike-and-bike trail that the city wants and FirstEnergy is willing to build.

Ohio Rails video

The city says one alternative is to run the line underground, but Colafella says that could lead to a ten-fold increase in the cost of the project. Dean DePiero, Aurora's law director, said the city has proposed an above-ground alternative that would skirt part of the city.

Colafella said that would be longer than the rail corridor and would carry the line along roadways and through front yards.

He said that FirstEnergy wants to have public meetings by the end of the year where it can show people what the company has in mind, and "we are anxious for public input."

A trail and 69-kilovolt high-power lines on 60-foot wood poles in one of the Summit Metroparks' reservations, the same arrangement that FirstEnergy wants to use on 5.5 miles of abandoned rail right-of-way in Aurora. (First Energy photo)

The public will likely include Gail Demming, whose family runs Demming Financial Services Corp. from the historic Erie Railroad Station on Route 82.

“We’re on the historic register,” she said. The business has been there for decades and refurbished the building twice.

Cutaway section of an underground circuit that carries 11,000 volts of electricity, similar to the circuits that provide electricity to numerous downtown Cleveland venues. The Illuminating Company, a FirstEnergy subsidiary, operates the downtown network that consists of 1,600 miles of such cable. (FirstEnergy photo)

But if a high-power line is placed above it, Demming Financial will leave, she said, instead of going forward with plans to put up another building so the business can expand.

Demming, who is secretary and treasurer of Demming Financial, said high-power lines diminish property values and are a health hazard.

David Demming Jr., vice president of Demming Financial Services, which operates out of the historic Erie Station in Aurora. The company owns the depot and has refurbished the station twice. (James Ewinger, The Plain Dealer)

Aurora Mayor Ann Womer Benjamin said council passed legislation last year that “created a process for any such line to be erected.”

The legislation said no utility can build new facilities or conduits without a permit from the city’s Division of Planning, Zoning and Building, and any utility going forward without a permit can be fined $1,000 for each day it is in violation.

Ticket window inside the meticulously restored Erie Station. The station is on the National Register of Historic Places. (James Ewinger, The Plain Dealer)

The legislation also says any utility with a valid permit can forego review by the city’s Planning Commission if it meets one of three conditions: If it buries the new line; places it 1,000 feet or more from residentially zoned properties or historic districts, or puts it in areas zoned for manufacturing, processing, wholesale or commercial use

Another view of the historic station on State Route 82. (James Ewinger, The Plain Dealer)

”We have been trying to work with FirstEnergy, but it is obvious that they are not interested in working with us,” the mayor said. “We are going to fight this every way we can.”

Norfolk Southern declined comment.