Current News | News Archive

Sankhya Technologies achieves ISO Certification

Chennai, Tamilnadu, India, Friday, April 25, 2003 -- Sankhya Technologies Private Limited has been granted the ISO 9001:2000 standards certification for "provision of system software products and development services". The certification approves Sankhya's quality management systems for design and development of products to meet international standards established by the International Organization for Standardization. This has been achieved during the first audit conducted by Det Norske Veritas (DNV), the certifying agency during Feb 05, 2003.

"Strong software process focus, deep knowledge of the technology have been Sankhya Technologies' strengths; Achieving ISO certification is the recognition of their customer orientation and attention to delivery of customised solutions to an increasing customer base" said Mr. Krishna Kumar, Country Manager - Certification for DNV.

About Sankhya

Founded in 1996, Sankhya Technologies Private Limited is one of India's leading software research and development company providing products and services across many different technologies. Sankhya offers solutions for Software Developers, On-chip designers, and SMEs/Work Groups. The technologies and tools developed by Sankhya can be used by developers wordwide in the development of a wide range of mission critical embedded systems including telecommunications, networking and industrial automation. Sankhya is a platform member of Object Management Group (OMG), a member of Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) and a member of National Association of Software and Service Companies (NASSCOM). Corporate office is located at #79, First Floor, Mahatma Gandhi Road, Nungambakkam, Chennai 600 034, India. World Wide Web site: www.sankhya.com.

SANKHYA, Varadhi, Web Varadhi, SANKHYA TECHNOLOGIES, SANKHYA Tools Collection, SANKHYA Translation Framework, Dynamically Targetable Tools Framework, SANKHYA Partners, SANKHYA Labs, SANKHYA Software, SANKHYA Assembler, SANKHYA Simulator, SANKHYA Development, SANKHYA Education, SANKHYA Research, Varadhi Services, The Digital Bridge, AppChain, AppCore, AppBundle, AppFed are Trademarks, Service Marks or Registered Trademarks of Sankhya Technologies Private Limited. OMG and CORBA are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Object Management Group, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries. All other brands and names are the property of their respective owners.

This document may contain forward looking statements that are subject to change without notice.

Media contact details

A R S Kumar,

Sankhya Technologies Private Limited,

+91 (44) 2822 7358,

pr@sankhya.com