Home | Presentation of the Region

Presentation of the Region

The Regional Office for Cross Border Cooperation Timisoara (RO CBC Timisoara) was created in order to offer the administrative, technical and logistic support necessary in the implementation for the Romanian-Serbian cross-border cooperation programmes, as it is Interreg-IPA Cross-Border Cooperation Romania-Serbia Programme, Romania-Serbia IPA Cross-Border Cooperation Programme 2007-2013 and the Neighbourhood Programme Romania-Serbia 2004-2006. Our main task is to provide professional services to potential applicants, to efficiently administrate the programs and projects funded by the European Union and to sustain the efforts of the border region in the social and economic development process.

We started our activity in September 2005, being legally founded by the association of Regional Development Agency West Region (RDA West) with the Regional Development Agency South-West Region (RDA South-West Oltenia) from Romania.

The headquarters are located in Timis County, Romania, in the city of Timisoara - an important historical landmark and a place of multicultural influences, having traditional connections with Serbia. In order to bring the information and services closer to the Romanian beneficiaries, we operate 2 offices in Caraș-Severin and Mehedinti counties. In the Serbian part of the border there is a Cross-Border Local Office in Vršac, having as its main role to serve as a local contact point for Serbian potential beneficiaries/project partners and to disseminate information at regional level, to support projects development in Serbia.

Timis County

Timis County is located in the Western part of Romania, at the Serbian and Hungarian borders. It has a surface of 8.696,7 square km that represents 3.65% of the country's total area, being the largest province of Romania.

Timis County is composed of 2 major urban areas: Timisoara City and Lugoj, 8 towns: Sânnicolau-Mare, Jimbolia, Buzias, Faget, Deta, Ciacova, Recas, Gataia and 89 administrative villages (comune).

Timis County is crossed by two European classified roads (E): E 70, enters Romania from the Serbian border point (Stamora Moravita in Timis County), and makes the connection, through Timisoara, with the South of the country and the capital, Bucharest, and E 671 which crosses Timis County from North to South, assuring in this way a good connection with Hungary and Central Europe.

Useful information:

Timis County Council

West Regional Development Agency

Timis Regional Directorate of Statistics

Useful documents:

National Development Plan 2007-2013

Caras-Severin County

Situated in the South-Western part of Romania, Caras-Severin county borders Timis county in the North-West, Hunedoara county in the North-East, Gorj county in the East, Mehedinti county in the South-East and the Republic of Serbia for 70 km in the west side and in the south-west is bordered by Danube for 64 km.

In Caras-Severin the industry represents an important part of the national economy and it is concentrated in county’s municipal towns and cities. Electrical engines and generators, diesel engines, hydraulic turbines, ship engines and steel fabricated in Resita city are well known across the world. Steel produced in Resita can be found in the Eifel Tower and Cernavoda bridge structure.

Caras-Severin County: Resita, Caransebes, Baile Herculane, Oravita, Moldova Noua, Bocsa, Anina, Otelu Rosu.

Useful information:

Caras-Severin County Council

Caras-Severin Regional Directorate of Statistics

Mehedinti County

Mehedinti County is situated in the South-Western part of Romania, on the left shore of Danube and neighbours the following counties: Caras-Severin at West, Gorj at north and Dolj at South-East. At South it borders Serbia and Bulgaria.

The county comprises 2 municipal towns: Drobeta-Turnu Severin and Orsova and 3 towns (Baia de Arama, Strehaia and Vanju Mare), 61 administrative villages (comuna) and 344 villages.

The county is crossed by European road E70 and the opening of Rhin-Main-Danube has put the county capital Drobeta-Turnu Severin in contact with all coastal cities from Black Sea to North Sea.

Iron Gates hydropower and navigation System Bridge has shortened road distance between Drobeta-Turnu Severin and other European cities.

Useful information:

Mehedinti County Council

Mehedinti Regional Directorate of Statistics

Borski District

The Borski District expands in the eastern parts of Serbia. It encompasses the municipalities of: Bor, Kladovo, Majdanpek and Negotin. It has a population of 140,367. Seat of the District is in the city of Bor, remarkable by its historic and cultural heritage. In the vicinity of Bor stands the Palace of Prince Alexander, built in 1856 in the Romanticism style and The House ("Konak") of Prince Milos (built in the Brestovicka Spa, originating from the nineteenth century).

This town has the reputation of the center of the largest-size copper mine in Europe; its modern exploitation started in 1904, but documents are found which evidence that it was exploited already in the early ancient times.

District seat Address

19219 Bor, 19 Mose Pijade

Tel./Fax: 030-22 946, 030-21 687

Branicevski District

The Branicevski District expands in the north-east of Sebia. It encompasses the municipalities of: Veliko Gradiste, Pozarevac, Golubac, Malo Crnice, Zabari, Petrovac, Kucevo, and Zagubica. It has a population of 197,194.

Seat of the District is in the city of Pozarevac, famous cross-roads, with numerous communications running through it still today.

In the mid-nineteenth century, at the time of the Serb state emancipation, Pozarevac became, along with Kragujevac, the second metropolis of Prince Milos Obrenovic. During his lifetime, Prince Milos Obrenovic had erected monuments to his memory in Pozarevac: the church (in 1819), palace (in 1825), new market-place (in 1827) and stud-farm - Ljubicevo (in 1860).

Some of the places of cultural importance in Pozarevac are: the National Museum (the first built after the Belgrade), the Tulba Ethnic Park (a unique out-door museum) and the Gallery of Paintings of Milena Pavlovic-Barili (a distinguished surrealistic artist and poetress).

Business facilities of this District are concentrated in the vicinity of the cities of Pozarevac and Costal. The most prominent is the food-industry giant: Agricultural-industrial Combine Pozarevac which provides employment to huge number of men and satisfies one quarter of the overall demands of the Republic of Serbia.

District Seat Address:

12 000 Pozarevac, 2 Drinska St.

Tel./Fax: 012-223 999, 222 316

South Banat District

The South Banat District expands in the eastern parts of Serbia. It encompasses the following municipalities: Plandiste, Opovo, Kovacica, Alibunar, Vrsac, Bela Crkva, Pancevo, and Kovin. It has a population of 310,862. Seat of the District is in Pancevo. Pancevo is distinguished for its numerous cultural institutions: the "Veljko Vlahovic" National Library, the Historic Archives, and the Institute for Protection of Culture Monuments.

The most remarkable cultural monuments of this region are: The Vojlovica Monastery, built in 1405, the Church of Assumption and the Church of Transfiguration built in 1811 and the National Museum, built in 1833. In this modern, industrial region stand out the "Pancevo" Oil Refinery, the "Azotara" Fertilizers Plants, and the Pancevo Petrochemistry.

District Seat Address:

26 000 Pancevo, 12-4 Kralja Petra Sq

Tel./Fax: 013-45 580, 46 940

Central Banat District

The Central Banat District expands in the northeastern parts of Serbia. It encompasses the municipalities of: Novi Becej, Nova Crnja, Zitiste, Secanj and Zrenjanin. It has a population of 202, 286. Seat of the District is in the city of Zrenjanin. Here the next buildings stand out by its fine quality: the Orthodox Church of Assumption from 1746, the Roman-Catholic Cathedral from 1868 and the Reformatory Church from 1891.

Economy of Zrenjanin is diverse: industry, agriculture, forestry, building industry, and transport.

The leading branch is the food-processing industry, integrated under the "Servo Mihalj" Industrial- Agricultural Combine.

Other major representatives of the Zrenjanin economy are: the DD "ZIP" brewery, the DD "Luxol" chemical industry and the "Zarko Zrenjanin" furniture factory.

District Seat Address:

23000 Zrenjanin, 10 Trg slobode

Tel./Fax: 023- 36 593, 66 007

North Banat District

The North Banat District expands in the northern parts of the Republic of Serbia. It encompasses the municipalities of: Kanjiza, Senta, Ada, Coka, Novi Knezevac, and Kikinda. It has a population of 179,783. Seat of the District is in the city of Kikinda. In Kikinda was founded the first Serb printing-house, in 1878, to be followed a year later by the opening of the first library.

This city is also reputable for its painters, including Teodor Ilic Cesljar (13th cent.), Nikola Aleksic (19th cent.), Djura Pecic (late 19th cent.), and Djura Jaksic, a painter and author.

Kikinda was the scene of the first theatrical performance, given in German, long back ago, in 1796.

Kikinda is the center of the Yugoslav clay building materials production, as a seat of the IGM DD "Toza Markovic" company, which is the oldest clay producer in Europe. The "Kikinda" foundry is the major Yugoslav producer and exporter of grinders. Also the "25 maj" factory of agricultural machines and equipment, and the "Electron" are the factories running production for both the local and foreign markets.

District Seat adress: