Timisoara is situated in the west of Romania, near the Serbian border, not far from Hungary and 600 km from the Romanian capital, Bucharest.

“Little Viena”, “The City of Flowers” or the City on the Bega River. All these names refer to Timișoara.

In Timișoara you will find the largest architectonic ensemble of historical buildings – a mix of diverse architectural styles, from Baroque, Art Nouveau and Secession.

Timisoara is the largest city in the historic Banat region and an important economic center in the west of the country.

It is a multicultural city – here you will find many ethnic communities, such as German, Serbian, Hungarian, Bulgarian, Italian and Greek, living in harmony and putting Timisoara on the map of Europe’s friendliest and most culturally open cities.

The strength of this city is its cultural diversity, which is why this year Timisoara proudly bears the title of European Capital of Culture.

You can find more about this cultural programme here.

If you take the time to visit Timisoara, you will discover that it is a bohemian and charming city, with a special architecture and many historic buildings, built in the Baroque style, which earned it the title of “Little Vienna”.

We also recommend you to take a stroll through the neighborhoods of Timișoara because here you will find the real history of the city. For example, the Fabric district retains the imprint of ethnic diversity and German, Hungarian and Serbian influences – the houses are brightly colored and ornately decorated.

On the other hand, the Mehala or Freidorf district retains the features of traditional Swabian villages – large, street-fronted houses with lots of green spaces.

You can find more info about the main districts of the city here.

A special charm is given by the parks and green spaces stretching along the Bega canal and in all parts of the town. For this reason Timisoara has acquired the name “city of parks and roses”.

Traian Vuia International Airport Timisoara is the third largest airport in Romania in terms of passengers, serving a population of 2.5 million inhabitants.

Since 6 January 2003, the airport bears the name of the Romanian inventor Traian Vuia, born in Timiș County.

Timisoara airport connects Timisoara with major cities in Italy (Venice, Rome, Milan, etc.), Germany (Dortmund, Frankfurt, Stuttgart), Greece (Zakynthos), UK (London), France (Paris) or Spain (Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia).

A smaller airport, located just 50 km from Timisoara, is Arad International Airport, but other nearby airports such as Sibiu or Oradea can also be considered.