DGCine Introduces the Film Statistics Platform “Rentrak”

Santo Domingo, August 10 2015

On the morning of Tuesday, August 4, at the General Directorate of Cinema (DGCINE) headquarters, “Rentrak”, the online statistical system for the film industry, was introduced to the various cinema owners in the country.

This tool, which is used for reporting, monitoring and to create statistics about the progress of each film that is screened in any movie theater, both locally and globally, has arrived in the Dominican Republic to assist with the transparency of the industry and to create a system that will make it easier for each film distributor and cinema owner to know in detail how well each production is doing. In addition, it provides a blueprint of what the expectation would be for future productions, from the time filming starts, to ensure a good distribution of the film to movie theaters.

Five local cinema owners were invited to the introductory event: Caribbean Cinemas República Dominicana, Palacio del Cine, Cinemas Pop, Cinemas Oasis and Colonial 4D, along with members of the DGCINE and its general director, Yvette Marichal. The presentation was made by the system’s regional director for Central America and the Caribbean, Luis B. Vargas Gómez.

This tool is currently used in the United States, Europe, Japan and India, and in over 40 other countries. The Dominican Republic was the only country in the Caribbean that was not participating.

Adopting this monitoring system will also provide detailed information on everything that happens in the movie theaters. It will also help Dominican films to become part of the various global statistical systems and film rankings; and, local distributors and studios in each location will have the opportunity to gather information about the progress of the films, thereby opening doors for the enrollment of native productions. And, definitely, the present expansion will offer many other advantages.

Rentrak is the leading provider of audiovisual consumption data to the entertainment and marketing industries globally. Through its research and technology systems, combined with demographic information, Rentrak is the only statistical currency of video on demand (VOD) and cinema. Rentrak offers a stable and robust measuring system for the film, TV and advertising industry professionals, through the most recognized companies in the industry. Rentrak’s headquarters are located in Portland, Oregon, and has offices throughout the United States and at the international level. For more information on Rentrak, please visit http://www.rentrak.com/

Photos

bootstrap carousel