Agent

Richard Abate, 3 Arts Entertainment

Bio: Richard Abate has been a literary manager for over fifteen years. In 2009 he joined 3 Arts Entertainment, a premier management company based in Los Angeles, to begin their literary division in New York. He has worked with top creative talent such as Tina Fey, Mindy Kaling, Issa Rae, B.J. Novak, Guillermo del Toro, Tim Kring, Howard Gordon, and others. He has worked with the award winning scientist, physician, and NYT bestselling author Sharon Moalem on titles including Survival of the Sickest and DNA Restart. He has also worked closely with Bob Harper to create his NY Times #1 bestselling diet and health series, The Skinny Rules. He has worked with sports celebrities Dale Earnhardt, Jr. and Josh Hamilton; he has also worked with top sports personalities such as Al Michaels, Colin Cowherd, and The Talented Mr. Roto, Matthew Berry. Richard represents many literary writers such as Sally Ball, Kate Christensen (PEN/Faulkner winner), Sana Krasikov (Sami Rohr Prize for Jewish Literature winner), and Oscar Casares, and screenwriter-authors as well such as Attica Locke, Amy Sohn, and Chuck Hogan (screenwriter and author of The Town and Hammett Award winner). He also represents YA authors Daniel Kraus, Lisi Harrison, and Melissa De La Cruz. He also represents Jeff Tietz (National Magazine Award nominee), Tara Bray Smith, Pulitzer Prize winner Tamara Jones, historian James Swanson, journalist Mitchell Zuckoff, Editor-in-Chief of The Boston Globe Brian McGrory, National Book Award nominee David McCumber, and two-time Pulitzer Prize winner Andrew Snyder.

He has also developed and produced for television and film. Projects he has developed, produced, or created include THE STRAIN by Guillermo del Toro and Chuck Hogan, forthcoming series 59 (FX) and BLACK WATER RISING (Starz) by Attica Locke; FROM SCRATCH (Hello Sunshine/Reese Witherspoon) by Tembi Locke, and NIGHT WATCH (AMC) with Sam Rockwell attached. Feature credits include 13 HOURS with Paramount, DANIEL ISN’T REAL with SpectreVision, GODS UNKNOWN with The Russo Brothers at Amazon, and with Sony: LOVE CANAL with Patricia Arquette attached as director, and HUNTING EL CHAPO with Michael Bay attached as director.

Agent

Lauren Bieker, FinePrint Literary Management

Bio: Lauren Bieker has been working at FinePrint since 2016, starting as an intern and working her way up to Literary Agent, and most recently, Vice President as of March 2023.

Lauren writes during her free time and has been published on various online platforms. She has attended many writing workshops and intensives, including the National Academy of Writing’s intensive at Cambridge University in the UK. She is also a member of the Association of American Literary Agents.

My message to querying authors: Have fun with your pitch–if you’re passionate about your story, I will be too!

Looking for: Lauren is looking for commercial and upmarket women’s fiction, romance (rom-coms, paranormal, and romantasy), and YA/MG novels in most genres. She is open to the following, in both adult and YA: science fiction, fantasy, horror, and thrillers (both speculative and domestic). She appreciates great storytelling and is a “sucker” for outstanding writing and convincing characters. While primarily interested in fiction, she will consider nonfiction proposals. She is looking for #ownvoices stories, Feminist lit/#MeToo stories, and works by BIPOC and LGBTQIA+ authors in both fiction and nonfiction. Her goal is to “hold the mic” for authors to tell their stories and be a helpful support system.

Not looking for: Lauren is NOT looking for religious, political, or military stories in both fiction and nonfiction.

Agent

Sandra Bond, Bond Literary Agency

Bio: Bond Literary Agency is a small, independent agency in Denver with a select list of clients and quite a broad list of titles represented by two agents and an agent-in-training. The Agency’s most recent success is the international bestselling Go as a River, which is now published or about to be published in 33 languages and 35+ countries, and the film option has been sold. Sandra was the program administrator at the University of Denver’s Publishing Institute for 4 years (2005-2009), and she still guest lectures there annually. She grew up in Denver and has a degree in microbiology from the University of Colorado.

Looking for: adult upmarket commercial and literary fiction, and smart, character-driven mystery/thriller/crime fiction. Her favorite thriller is The Silent Patient by Alex Michaelides. She also loves Paula Hawkins and Gillian Flynn, and her own award-winning crime authors, of course, Tiffany Quay Tyson, Catherine Wallace Hope, and Susan Spann.

Not looking for: memoir, romance, cozy mysteries, religious fiction, science fiction, poetry, children’s picture books.

Agent

Laura Bradford, Bradford Literary Agency

Bio: Laura Bradford established the Bradford Literary Agency in 2001. She considers herself an editorial-focused agent and takes a hands-on approach to developing proposals and manuscripts with her authors for the most appropriate markets. She is a member of the Association of American Literary Agents (AALA) and the Society of Children’s Book Writers and Illustrators (SCBWI). Laura’s clients include both debut and award-winning and best-selling authors and she strives to showcase diverse voices in all genres and would love to bring more LGBTQ+ and BIPOC authors (and protagonists!) into the publishing world.

Looking for: She is actively building her client list and represents work in the following categories: romance (historical, romantic suspense, category, contemporary), speculative fiction, women’s fiction, historical fiction, mystery, thrillers, young adult, upper middle grade, illustration as well as some select non-fiction. She is especially interested in acquiring graphic novels, anything #ownvoices, and recent items on her wish list include: plus-sized heroines, manuscripts with disabled rep, a mystery/suspense series with a female protagonist that is an expert in a thinky field (like the Temperance Brennan series by Kathy Reichs), deep, juicy middle grade with a lot of emotional gravitas, a historical mystery series with a slow burn romance, multigenerational women’s fiction with some cool time periods and settings, middle grade with non-traditional family dynamics, stories of Black joy (any age), funny, escapist YA, forced proximity survival stories (stranded on an island? plane crash in the mountains? snowed in? Any age. I loved Baby Island AND Six Days, Seven Nights).

Not looking for: military thrillers/narrative, mafia/mob stories, adult science fiction/fantasy, westerns, religious/spiritual, anything that celebrates violence towards women or children.

Agent

Hannah Brattesani, The Friedrich Agency, LLC

Bio: Hannah Brattesani is a literary agent and the Director of International Rights at The Friedrich Agency. She represents literary and upmarket fiction, and voice-driven nonfiction. Hannah emigrated from Scotland to New York after graduating from the University of St Andrews, where she was awarded the Douglas Dunn Award for Writing. She began her career at Emma Sweeney Agency and speakers bureau Blue Flower Arts, later joining Folio as interim Director of International Rights. Hannah has been with Friedrich since 2019 and is privileged to work with many bestselling and celebrated authors.

Looking for: Within the suspense and thriller genres specifically, Hannah is looking for a literary approach. She gravitates towards narratives with female protagonists, an unusual hook, and a strong sense of place. Hannah also enjoys literary and upmarket horror, particularly novels that employ genre elements in playful and subversive ways. She is also a sucker for humor, an inventive use of language and form, and, you guessed it, stories set on the other side of the Atlantic.

Not looking for: Hannah is not looking for speculative fiction, fantasy, science fiction, military thrillers, and YA.

Editor

Joe Brosnan, Grove Atlantic

Bio: Joe Brosnan is a Senior Editor at Grove Atlantic where he specializes in crime fiction. Prior to that, he worked at St. Martin’s Press/Minotaur Books and managed Criminal Element for nearly a decade.

Looking for: At this time, I am exclusively looking for crime fiction submissions, particularly books from diverse authors who are using the genre to hold up a mirror to contemporary issues. I’m interested in everything from small-town noir to upmarket thrillers, and I’m looking for authors who intend to write a book every year(ish), whether it’s a series or standalone. I want to find authors who are in this for the long haul, and who I can work with for years to come.

Not looking for: I’m less interested in historical crime fiction, especially anything set before the 20th Century, and while I know cozies are having their moment, I’m not looking for those types of books either.

Agent

Chris Bucci, Aevitas Creative Management

Bio: Chris Bucci represents bestselling and award-winning fiction and non-fiction authors including, Bath Haus by PJ Vernon; Highway of Tears by Jessica McDiarmid; Is Gwyneth Paltrow Wrong About Everything? by Timothy Caulfield; KISMET by Amina Akhtar; and The War Widow by Tara Moss.

Chris began his career at the University of Toronto Press as an acquisitions editor in the social sciences. He joined HarperCollins Canada in 2003 as a non-fiction editor and then moved to McClelland & Stewart. In 2008 he joined The McDermid Agency as a literary agent and later bought the agency, along with Martha Webb. In 2017 they merged with the Cooke Agency to form CookeMcDermid where Chris was Proprietor and Literary Agent before joining Aevitas in 2020.

Chris aims to work with some of the culture’s best writers, thinkers and experts—authors whose work helps us to interpret and understand our times as well as our future.

Looking for: Mysteries, thrillers, literary fiction, historical fiction, commercial literary fiction, and narrative nonfiction. For nonfiction, he seeks popular science, sports, popular culture, politics, and history.

Not looking for: YA, Fantasy and Sci-Fi.

Agent

Claudia Cross, Folio Literary Management

Bio: Advocate, adviser, ally, coach, counselor, and negotiator: an agent, at times, can play one or all of these roles in the literary life of an author. In responding to the changing needs of the writers she represents, Claudia brings to each a high level of individualized attention. She began her career at William Morris, and then joined Sterling Lord Literistic, where she worked for just over a decade before joining Folio and becoming a partner. She has worked with a range of authors in both fiction and nonfiction, from CEOs, chefs and debut writers to New York Times bestsellers. Among the diverse clients she represents are the literary Estate of Mother Teresa; entrepreneur and designer Emily Ley; art historian and Renoir scholar Barbara Ehrlich White; and novelists Rachel Gibson and Christina Lynch.

Looking for: For thrillers specifically, she is looking for compelling female characters; modern espionage with a classic feel, and stories involving people going about their daily lives who find themselves in extraordinary circumstances.

Editor

Luisa Cruz Smith, Penzler Publishers

Bio: Luisa Cruz Smith is the editor in chief of Penzler Publishers, which includes The Mysterious Press and Scarlet Suspense. Luisa spent her early career as the buying director for Book Passage, one of the largest independent bookstores in the country, and as a freelance editor for authors focused on crime fiction. After first editing for Otto Penzler on special projects, Luisa became the founding editor-in-chief for Penzler Publisher’s new suspense fiction imprint, Scarlet Suspense. In 2022 she was promoted to editor-in-chief of Penzler Publishers, which includes Mysterious Press, a literary crime fiction imprint Penzler founded in 1975 and has published some of the greatest names in the genre.

Looking for: Luisa is interested in a wide range of crime fiction – from the traditional who-dunnit, to international thrillers, to psychological suspense – but mostly she is hoping to find great characters and a gripping storyline.

Not looking for: She is not interested in short stories or books centered around Sci-Fi or Fantasy elements.

Agent

Liza Fleissig, Liza Royce Agency

Bio: Liza Fleissig, with her partner Ginger Harris-Dontzin, opened the Liza Royce Agency (LRA) in early 2011. A cross-platform company providing development, representation, and strategic career management for clients in all media, their goal is to represent clients in all stages of their careers, from the most established to those developing their craft, as well as debuts. Both former partners in NYC based litigation law firms, Liza and Ginger bring a combined 40 years of negotiating experience to the field. This background, along with connections rooted in publishing, movies and television, allowed them to focus and build on a referral based clientele.

Clients: Robert Bailey II, Isabella Maldonado, Sara DiVello, Elise Hart Kipness, Amy Impellizzeri, Retired FBI Agent Jerri Williams, Jon Lindstrom, Estate of Marc Olden, among others

Looking for: psychological thrillers, domestic suspense, mystery/suspense, crime fiction, medical thrillers (would love the next Quincy/Scarpetta generation) – basically a fresh way in to tried and true concepts – female narratives with complicated histories/family/friendships always welcome

Currently not looking for: sci/fi/fantasy, crazy presidents, Russia/China, covid/pandemic stories, traditional CIA/terrorist, mob/cartel, military thrillers (unless author is/was military)

Agent

Ronald Gerber, Lowenstein Associates

Bio: Ronald Gerber is a literary agent and manages foreign rights, permissions, and contracts at Lowenstein Associates, the agency best known for representing internationally bestselling mystery writer M.C. Beaton. Before joining the Lowenstein team in 2019, he spent several years in literary scouting at Sanford J. Greenburger Associates and Maximum Films & Management and supported two agents at Writers House.

Ronald’s clients include Sonja Thomas, whose debut children’s novel SIR FIG NEWTON & THE SCIENCE OF PERSISTENCE (Aladdin/Simon & Schuster) is a 2023 Oregon Book Awards finalist, and Lorissa Rinehart, whose biography FIRST TO THE FRONT about pioneering photojournalist Dickey Chapelle will publish from St. Martin’s Press in July, 2023. Ronald is focused on cinematic stories with strong hooks and relatable characters, and he is always looking for projects from queer, BIPOC, and other underrepresented authors.

Looking for: Thriller, crime, cozy mystery, upmarket and commercial contemporary fiction, historical fiction, romance, romantic comedy, grounded sc-fi, narrative nonfiction, memoir/biography, true crime, and middle grade.

Not looking for: Military thrillers, screenplays, puzzles, games, religious fiction, erotica, practical nonfiction (i.e. business, advice, hobbies, DIY), or textbooks.

Agent

Doug Grad, Doug Grad Literary Agency

Bio: Doug’s path on the road to publishing may have been set early. His first job in the industry came in 1978, walking up and down Fifth Avenue in Manhattan wearing a sandwich board advertising a new novel during the 1978 New York City newspaper strike. The next year, he took creative writing at Stuyvesant High School with Frank McCourt, nearly two decades before McCourt won the Pulitzer Prize for Angela’s Ashes. Doug opened the Doug Grad Literary Agency, Inc. in 2008. As a third generation New Yorker and 25-year resident of Brooklyn, Doug moved to Salem, Massachusetts in 2021. No, he has not been turned into a toad by a witch (yet).

After starting at Simon & Schuster as an assistant to the assistant of Michael Korda, 2023 begins Doug’s 37th year as a publishing professional. An editor with imprints at Simon & Schuster, Random House, Penguin and HarperCollins for 22 years, Doug acquired and edited fiction and nonfiction bestsellers. On the nonfiction side, Doug has worked with astronauts, generals, war heroes, gangsters, cops, politicians, sports stars, journalists, musicians, historians and humorists. It’s never boring, and it keeps him out of the saloons!

As an agent, Doug has represented such clients as New York Times bestselling author of historical fiction Jeff Shaara; New York Timesbestseller Kerri Rawson (daughter of serial killer Dennis Rader, known as BTK); New York Times bestselling WWII historian Larry Alexander; Grammy-winning jazz guitarist John Pizzarelli; Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Hugh Shelton, and true crime and mob writer Michael Benson, among others. In the mystery/thriller genre, Doug represents two-time Agatha Award and four-time Lefty Award winner Ellen Byron (and her alter-ego Maria DiRico); Jerome Preisler, author of the NET FORCE series created by Tom Clancy and Steve Pieczenik; New York Times bestseller David L. Robbins; psychological suspense writer Debbie Babitt; thriller writer Matthew Betley; and espionage novelist A.J. Chambers.

Looking For: On the fiction side, Doug’s looking for mysteries (cozy, contemporary or historical), all stripes of thrillers, and contemporary fiction with interesting voices. On the nonfiction side, Doug’s looking for military, narrative nonfiction, celebrity memoir, history, music, popular science, business and sports.

Not looking for: Children’s picture books, middle grade, YA, science fiction, fantasy

Agent

Angie Hodapp, Nelson Literary Agency

Bio: Angie Hodapp is the Director of Literary Development at Nelson Literary Agency. She holds a BA in English and secondary education and an MA in English and communication development. A graduate of the Publishing Institute at the University of Denver, she has worked in professional writing, editing, and education for more than twenty years. A frequent presenter at writing conferences and events, and the author of Query Craft and Do You Need a Literary Agent, she loves helping writers improve their craft and learn about the ever-changing world of publishing.

Looking for: Nelson Literary Agency is looking for twisty, atmospheric, character-driven thrillers with upmarket or literary voices and book-to-screen appeal. At the top of our wish lists are psychological and domestic thrillers: stories that reveal the dark side of the familiar, or that show just how quickly situations that seem safe or relationships that seem mundane can go horribly wrong. Think No One Is Watching by Alyssa Cole or Leave the World Behind by Rumaan Alam. Also exciting to us are speculative thrillers with unique settings and compelling what-if concepts (Archive 81, Severance, Shining Girls, Outer Range, 1899) and suspense rooted in dark or quirky humor (Deadloch, Fargo). Other thriller/suspense faves include Tana French, Gillian Flynn, Liane Moriarty, Lisa Jewell, Catriona Ward, Simone St. James, Blake Crouch, and Mick Herron, and on screen, Black Bird, The Old Man, and The Patient.

Not looking for: police procedurals, cozy mysteries, or commercial medical, legal, political/spy, or religious/antiquities thrillers…unless the prose is upmarket or literary and the author is twisting familiar tropes in really cool, high-concept ways.

Agent

Andrea Hurst, Andrea Hurst & Associates

Bio: Andrea Hurst is the Founder and President of Andrea Hurst & Associates.

As a literary agent and developmental editor, Andrea brings over 25 years of experience in the publishing industry. She has worked with major publishers, both domestic and international. Overall, her focus is to help authors polish their book, obtain publication, and build their author brand.

Some of her clients include bestsellers such as Dr. Bernie Siegel, Boo Walker, Marc Edelheit, Hannah Jayne, Penny Warner, Ashley Farley, Chef John Ash, and Suzanne Kelman. Her clients and their books have appeared on the Oprah Show, Ellen DeGeneres Show, Good Morning America, National Geographic Network, Amazon Charts, and in The NY Times.

Andrea began her career in the entertainment business working in product development and marketing with Columbia Records, but eventually found her passion in book publishing. She teaches classes at writing conferences and MFA programs, offering valuable insight as an agent, editor, and author of ten books, both in fiction and nonfiction. Her most recent novel, House of Dreams, releases in April 2024.

Looking for: I am currently seeking well-crafted, commercially viable fiction titles. My preferred genres are women’s fiction, upmarket and book club fiction, domestic suspense/thrillers, family drama, psychological suspense, crime fiction, historical fiction, rom com, and romance. I am always open to working with underrepresented voices and stories.

Crime novel that plays games with the psyche – no police procedurals

Rom-com with a diverse set of characters and an idealistic setting (like novels by Abby Jimenez)

In terms of literary fiction, I am drawn to works like Beartown by Fredrik Backman, which contains strong character development, powerful themes, and overcoming both internal and external conflicts.

Historical fiction set in the Georgian era (Austen’s time), Gilded Age, or early 1900s like Downton Abbey and WWII.

Contemporary romance with strong tropes and series potential.

Fast-paced, twisty domestic suspense (like novels by Freda McFadden or Harlan Coben)

Atmospheric, high-conflict, high-stakes thriller similar to The Guestlist by Lucy Foley

Dramatic thrillers with family dynamics similar to The Last Thing He Told Me by Laura Dave

Psychological suspense with a surprise ending like The Plot by Jean Hanff Korelitz

Anything along the same vein as the series The Morning Show or Defending Jacob on Apple TV+

As always, I’m enthralled by stories that challenge me, where the mystery is seemingly impossible to figure out, and the reader never knows the truth until the very end. However, believability is of upmost importance.

Not looking for: Please keep in mind, I am not a right fit for titles that deal with espionage, the military, explicit gore or carnage, high-fantasy or sci-fi, erotica, poetry, young adult, or middle grade.

Agent

Ginger Hutchinson, Movable Type Management

Bio: After graduating with a degree in Film Studies, Ginger Hutchinson went on to become Wesleyan University’s Kim Frank Fellow of Creative Writing, building upon years of experience as an editor in publication, workshop and teaching environments.

As an educator, most recently with the Free Library of Philadelphia, Ginger has been committed to nurturing creativity and embracing the power of storytelling to connect each of us with a sense of purpose, community and appreciation of one another’s unique way of navigating the world.

Ginger grew up in rural Florida amidst a large, rambunctious family and massive system of natural springs; all its pre-historic creatures and people who often seem odd to outsiders are regular characters in the story she carries through life.

Looking for: high-concept commercial and upmarket fiction, including thrillers, feel-good mysteries, domestic suspense, rom-coms, horror, women’s and historical fiction. I’m actively seeking archetypal stories with a strong hook, compelling characters and a rich sense of place.

Not looking for: YA, Sci/Fi, Military Fiction, or stories involving the pandemic.

Agent

Michelle Jackson, LCS Literary Services

Bio: Michelle Jackson represents books that evoke heartfelt emotions and fervent conversations among readers. Her mission is to mentor and develop authors, particularly those from underrepresented communities, and help them build a brand of quality and authentic reads.

Originally from Jamaica, West Indies, Michelle is now a literary agent with LCS Literary. She began her agenting career as an intern and then a Literary Associate with Olswanger Literary. She is also a published author and has earned educational degrees from New York University, SUNY at StonyBrook, Teachers College Columbia University and Argosy University. Michelle looks forward to bringing adult fiction and select young adult and non-fiction works of new authors to the masses, especially BIPOC and underrepresented authors. She is also a content editor and loves developing and working with new authors to help them hone their craft.

Looking for: She is looking for stories with strong character arcs and hooks. Intriguing plot lines that keep her up at night until she gets to the last page. Romances that make her heart swoon, thrillers that keep her guessing and heartwarming, uplifting tales. Stories about sister friends, mother-daughter relationships. Stories with themes of friendship, forgiveness, love and second chances. Michelle has a soft spot for fellow educators who are writers and for stories featuring educators. She is also looking for those who want to write category romances–she also loves Amish romances!

Adult Fiction: Commercial, Historical, Humor, New Adult, Romance, Science Fiction, Fantasy, Thriller, Women’s Fiction

Sub-genres: Contemporary Romance, Multicultural, Psychological Thrillers, Romantic Comedy, Romantic Suspense

Young Adult Fiction: Contemporary, Historical, Christian, Romance

Not looking for: Children’s or Non-fiction at this time.

Agent

Andrew Lampack, Peter Lampack Agency, Inc.

Bio: Founded in 1977, the Peter Lampack Agency places manuscripts with all of the major publishers in New York and throughout the world and negotiates the full spectrum of rights from book properties including literary, film, music, television, dramatic stage, electronic, audio, serial and gaming. We are extremely selective about our clientele and strive to meet the specific and idiosyncratic needs of our clients in such areas as creative and editorial guidance, career management, marketing, and promotion. We attend both the Frankfurt and London Book Fairs and have negotiated foreign deals with leading publishers in over 40 countries. We are one of the few agencies that still accepts unsolicited queries from new authors.

Our clients include the Clive Cussler estate, bestselling author Dirk Cussler, Nobel laureate J.M. Coetzee, country lawyer Gerry Spence, bestselling author Russell Blake, and neurologist Dr. Richard Cytowic.

Looking for: Commercial and literary fiction as well as non-fiction by recognized experts in a given field.

Not looking for: Children’s books/ YA fiction, horror, romance, westerns, science fiction or screenplays.

Agent

La Sheera Lee, SBR Media

Bio: La Sheera Lee, Senior Agent at SBR Media, loves to make others shine. As an award-winning blogger and literary activist, she has managed to place a positive spotlight on the publishing industry.

La Sheera has also facilitated workshops on query letters, the art of romance, and pitches. In addition, she was a panelist at Duke University’s Unsuitable series. The series delved into conversations about women, history, and popular fiction.

In her limited spare time, La Sheera Lee is also a podcaster and magazine contributor. When she does not have a book in her hand, she is most likely spending time with her family or binge-watching Murder She Wrote. Follow her at @Readyoulater on IG and X.

Looking for: La Sheera is looking for thrillers, commercial fiction, upmarket fiction, women’s fiction, historical fiction, and contemporary romance.

Not looking for: La Sheera is not looking for nonfiction, memoirs, or graphic novels.

agent

Stefanie Lieberman, Janklow & Nesbit Associates

Bio: Stefanie joined JNA as Senior Counsel in 2005 after practicing law at New York’s Guggenheim Museum and boutique entertainment firm Frankfurt Kurnit. She has degrees from Yale and Northwestern University School of Law, as well as an unwieldy and ever-growing collection of books in every category.

Looking for: As an agent, Stefanie focuses primarily on upmarket fiction with commercial appeal. She loves literary thrillers, historical fiction, quick-witted beach and book club reads, and any plot-driven story with a distinctive voice and a smart, high-concept hook. Stefanie also gravitates towards novels with a strong sense of time and place, a unique atmosphere, or gripping, edge-of-the-seat suspense. She loves books with spooky undertones and magical elements, and she’s always on the hunt for writers who make her laugh.

Some of books Stefanie admires include: The Storied Life of AJ Fikry by Gabrielle Zevin; First Lie Wins by Ashley Elston; The Maid by Nita Prose; Ninth House by Leigh Bardugo; Counterfeit by Kirstin Chen; Circe by Madeline Miller; Starling House by Alix E. Harrow; A Lady’s Guide to Fortune-Hunting by Sophie Irwin; The Jane Austen Society by Natalie Jenner; The Silent Patient by Alex Michaelides; Possession by A.S. Byatt; The Little Stranger by Sarah Waters; Lessons in Chemistry by Bonnie Garmus; The Guncle by Steven Rowley.

Not looking for: Stefanie is not looking for young adult fiction at this time.

Agent

Jake Lovell, Sandra Dijkstra Literary Agency

Bio: Jake joined SDLA in 2023. He earned his MA in Literature and Writing Studies from CSU San Marcos in 2021. He is also a veteran, having joined the Army in 2008. During his time he was promoted to Sergeant and served on two deployments overseas. Born and raised in Southern California, Jake proudly comes from a mixed cultural background and is second generation Chicano on his mother’s side.

Looking for: He is actively seeking adult fiction and non-fiction. In general, he’s especially drawn to character driven stories written in distinct and diverse voices with an emphasis on:

Gothic, horror, thrillers, westerns, military, and books with speculative fiction elements (supernatural, paranormal, UFOs, etc…; think Jordan Peele or 10 Cloverfield Lane).

Indigenous stories and Latin(x) stories are both extremely underrepresented and I am dying to read and represent new authors from these backgrounds; fiction and non-fiction.

I love murder mysteries like Sharp Objects and Girl on the Train, not mystery as the main genre/market however, but something that aligns more along the vein of suspense. I’m also a sucker for a good whydunit.

On the non-fiction front, Jake is especially interested in True Crime, history, and military, ex.: Columbine, American Sniper, and The Fact of a Body.

Not looking for: romance, fantasy, Sci Fi, YA, or children’s books, spy/espionage.

Agent

Sandy Lu, Book Wyrm Literary Agency

Bio: Sandy Lu founded Book Wyrm Literary Agency in 2020 after working as a literary agent for more than a decade at the L. Perkins Agency. Her client list includes Amazon, Barnes & Noble, Publishers Weekly, and USA Today bestsellers, Stoker Award, Hammett Prize, and Anthony Award nominees, Goodreads Choice Awards finalists, and New York Times Best of the Year recipient.

Sandy is seeking stories that will draw her in with a unique voice, make her miss her bedtime with a thrilling plot, and characters that will stay with her long after she turns the last page. Bonus points if you can make her laugh out loud or unable to hold back tears. She especially loves historical fiction, atmospheric world building, and anything dark, twisted, or with a supernatural bent. She favors unreliable narrators and serpentine plots that will keep her guessing till the end. And her white whale is a great spy novel set in early 20th century Shanghai.

Looking for: mystery, thriller, suspense, horror, science fiction, fantasy, historical fiction, upmarket women’s fiction, YA, family saga, rom-coms, historical true crime, biography, and narrative nonfiction on history, science, psychology, and food.

Not looking for: picture books, graphic novels, screenplays, memoir, contemporary true crime, parenting, sports, political/religious/military thrillers, westerns, erotica, or poetry.

Clients: M. H. Boroson, B.J. Graf, Heather Levy, Jeneva Rose, and Randall Silvis.

Agent

Kiana Nguyen, Donald Maass Literary Agency

Bio: Kiana (Kiki) Nguyen started in publishing in 2015 with an internship with Wunderkind PR, independent book publishing PR company, working on campaigns with authors such as Ernest Cline. There, she discovered a practical industry for her codependent love of fiction. In 2016, Kiki went on to intern with DMLA where she soon joined the team full-time as an assistant literary agent.

Kiki is now building her client list within young adult and adult fiction with a focus on queer and BIPOC authors.

Looking for: Dark, gritty, fun romps in Romance, Horror, and Domestic Suspense especially; both Young Adult and Adult. I want to have a good time with bitchy, irredeemable characters who do what they want when they want and have to suffer the consequences. If they have never cared about doing the right, responsible, legal thing they’re already halfway to my heart. I want extroverts with personality and chaotic social lives, please I’m bored and dying. Bonus points if it’s characters in their 20s-30s that feel like they’re living in the 2020s.

With Domestic Suspense, Psychological Thrillers, and Thrillers of that nature: Suburban houses occupied by unhappily married straight couples aren’t the only options for settings and character scenarios! Cities exist! So do apartment buildings and single people with myriad friends/friend groups outside of nosy housewives and the PTA! And really, I would love to read about women whose lives don’t revolve around men in any way.

I want to have fun! I am always a sucker for dark, meaty twists and turns (hello, Lisa Jewell!) but I’d love to see different narrative tones a la the 1999 classic Jawbreaker and Scream (which is a Horror, I know but still applicable and also what I rep!). Doom, gloom, and dread are fantastic ways to doll out a mystery or suspense but not the only way and I am dying to see more narrative variety in the genre.

Horror that doesn’t take itself too seriously and feels like the narrators are just as unreliable as the potential kill count. I’m bored by single family homes and ancient estates, so let’s change the location and demographic of the characters, please.

Romance with heat and bite—the rom-coms are getting corny and lacking the “com” to begin with.

SFF that pivots away from the rigamarole of royal politics, machinations, knighthood/guards, etc. etc. I want to have some hectic times with the serfdom, please, I beg.

Agent

Lynnette Novak, The Seymour Agency

Bio: Lynnette Novak is an agent at The Seymour Agency.

Prior to joining The Seymour Agency, Lynnette spent seventeen years freelance editing. She worked with new writers, advanced writers, as well as New York Times and USA Today bestselling authors. Lynnette earned a Bachelor of Education degree from the University of Manitoba, where she specialized in English and French. She excelled in Advanced Creative Writing in university and studied writing for children and teens through the Institute of Children’s Literature. She was a Pitch Wars mentor in 2015 and 2016. Both her mentees acquired an agent. Lynnette has since closed her editing business and is excited to bring her passion for the written word to agenting.

Although Lynnette was born and raised Manitoba, Canada, she now lives in Minnesota with her husband, twin girls, and many pets. Her personal interests include reading, writing, exercising at the gym (okay, that’s a love/hate relationship), working on an assortment of crafts, all things having to do with animals (if she could own a farm, zoo, and animal shelter, she would), and enjoying time with family and friends.

She loves dark and suspenseful, mysterious twists, unique worlds, light and funny, a good love story, and lots of voice.

Follow Lynnette on Twitter: @Lynnette_Novak

https://theseymouragency.com

#MSWL: https://www.manuscriptwishlist.com/mswl-post/lynnette-novak/

Looking for: (Always looking for BIPOC, diversity of all kinds, and LGBTQ+!!!)

Picture books: fiction and nonfiction picture books (non-rhyming preferred)

MG genres: contemporary, mystery, magical realism, contemporary/grounded fantasy, horror

YA genres: rom-com, thriller, romantic fantasy, fantasy, magical realism, horror

Adult fiction genres: thriller, psychological suspense, horror, mystery (traditional and amateur sleuth)

Adult nonfiction genres: memoirs, spirituality/New Age, self-help, health/fitness, parenting/family, motivational/inspirational, business, celebrity, lifestyle, pets, psychology, relationships & dating, and true crime. You must be an expert in the field and have a platform. What kind of platform do you need for nonfiction? Are you a celebrity with a story to tell? An expert in the field (doctor, CEO, trainer, psychologist, etc.)? Do you have a direct route to the consumer? Are you a social influencer or public speaker?

Not looking for: Romance, women’s fiction, Christian fiction, historical, sci-fi in any age group, adult fantasy, or graphic novels.

Editor

Melissa Rechter, Crooked Lane Books

Bio: Melissa Rechter is an Editor and Acquisitions Manager at Crooked Lane Books and Alcove Press. She joined the team in 2019 and has had the pleasure of working with ITW nominees, New York Times and USA Today bestselling authors, as well as a myriad of talented writers.

Looking for: For Crooked Lane, she is looking for cozy mysteries, domestic suspense and psychological thrillers, horror, and historical mysteries with a feminist bent (from the ’20s, Victorian era, and late Regency). She’d love to find the next Cassandra Khaw, Lucy Foley, or Jennifer Hillier. If a book has cults, serial killers, complicated family dynamics, twisted female friendships, poisonous plants, small town secrets, or is a locked room thriller, it’s right up her alley.

For Alcove Press, she is interested in book club fiction, historical fiction, romantasy, and speculative fiction. Magical realism in the vein of Isabel Allende and Alix E. Harrow or anything witchy in the vein of Practical Magic and The Very Secret Society of Irregular Witches, is perfect for her. She’s also looking for novels that center around found families, female friendships, and overcoming generational trauma, especially through the lens of an eldest or only daughter.

Not looking for: She is not looking for military or scifi thrillers.

Agent

Michelle Richter, Fuse Literary

Bio: Michelle Richter is a Senior Agent at Fuse Literary, which she joined from St. Martin’s Press. Crime fiction is her true love, from police procedurals to domestic suspense to thriller. And let’s not forget heists and con artists. She’s rarely found a British or Scandinavian crime show she couldn’t get wrapped up in. Recent favorite authors include Eli Cranor, Ruth Ware, S.A. Cosby, P.J. Vernon, Halley Sutton, and David Heska Wanbli Weiden.

Looking for: She is currently looking for suspense, thriller, amateur sleuth, traditional mystery, police procedural, commercial women’s fiction, and book club reads. She loves a strong voice, character-driven fiction, dual timelines, family secrets, sister/friend stories, lots of twists, and unreliable narrators. LGBTQ, BIPOC, and disabled voices are very welcome.

Not looking for: She is not looking for WWII or pre-20th century historical fiction; private investigators; political, military or espionage thrillers; science fiction/fantasy; poetry; YA or middle-grade fiction; memoir. Stories with human or drug trafficking, sexual assault or abuse, religious themes or characters aren’t a good fit for Michelle’s list.

Clients: E.A. Aymar, L.A. Chandlar, Kyra Davis, Kellye Garrett, Tara Laskowski, Alan Orloff, J. Todd Scott, Carl Vonderau, Erica Wright.

Agent

Rebecca Shaevitz, Verve Talent & Literary

Bio: Rebecca Shaevitz is a literary agent at Verve Talent & Literary Agency, a full service Entertainment and Publishing agency with offices in New York and Los Angeles. On the nonfiction side, Rebecca specializes in narrative and platform-driven works, and on the fiction side she’s focused on YA and thrillers, among other categories.

Rebecca has worked with authors like Ben McKenzie, Jen Hamilton, Hadley Vlahos, Tochi Onyebuchi, Anna Akbari, and Cinelle Barnes.

A graduate of Washington University in St. Louis, Rebecca began her career in the Entertainment world at Seth MacFarlane’s Fuzzy Door Entertainment, and is especially passionate about supporting authors’ ambitions across other media verticals such as film/TV and audio, in addition to publishing.

Looking for:

Incisive, compelling narrative nonfiction, platform driven nonfiction, and memoir.

Fiction:

— High concept thrillers

— Dark Academia

— Romantic Comedy with depth

— YA with themes of self-discovery, sexuality, identity, etc.

Agent

Alec Shane, Writers House

Bio: Alec majored in English at Brown University, a degree he put to immediate use by moving to Los Angeles after graduation to become a professional stunt man. Realizing that he prefers books to breakaway glass, he moved to New York City in 2008 to pursue a career in publishing. Alec quickly found a home at Writers House Literary Agency, where he quickly began building his own list. He is still aggressively looking for new talent across a wide variety of genres.

Looking For: Horror, thriller, mystery, noir, grounded sci-fi, YA and middle grade “boy” fiction, and beautifully written historical fiction. In nonfiction: biography, narrative nonfiction history, military, pop science, and all things sports.

Not Looking For: Romance (paranormal or otherwise), politics (fiction or nonfiction), women’s fiction, picture books, high fantasy, and science fiction featuring aliens/intergalactic warfare. He’s also read enough about Russia, in any capacity, for a while.

Clients: Nat Cassidy, Casey Barrett, Adam Cesare, Hank Early, Jumata Emill, Laurie R. King, Mystery Writers of America (MWA), Jack Murphy, Christopher Price, among others.

Agent

Hannah Sheppard, Hannah Sheppard Literary Agency

Bio: Hannah Sheppard was an editor for ten years (at Macmillan Children’s Books & Headline, part of Hachette Publishing Group). She joined the DHH Literary Agency in 2013 when she realised the more senior she got in-house, the less she got to do the bits of her job she really loves – working directly with authors to develop their ideas for commercial success. In 2023 Hannah launched her own agency. She represents commercial fiction across the children’s and adult’s markets.

Looking for: Adult, YA and kids fiction. Books that show us what a society that is kinder and more equal than the one we have now might look like. Books that centre the voices that aren’t often amplified in the current publishing ecosystem. Feminist books across genres (I’m particularly interested in exploring feminist horror). Gripping commercial adult fiction with a speculative twist. Pacy thrillers with a unique hook. Heart-melting romances with a unique meet cute. Make me laugh or make me cry. Or both.

Not looking for: Military/espionage/terrorism/action thrillers. High Fantasy. Historical. Anything that involves rape as a plot device. Poetry. Screenplays.

Agent

Erica Spellman Silverman, Trident Media Group

Bio: At 23 years old, Erica Spellman Silverman began her career at ICM. Coming from a family of writers and editors, she’s loved books all her life. She represented journalists Hunter S. Thompson, Tim O’Brien, Robert Scheer, Robert Greenfield, Tim White, and Cameron Crowe, among others. Many went on to become novelists, screenwriters, and directors. After transitioning to the film side of the business, Erica found that she missed working with novelists and moved to The William Morris Agency (now William Morris Endeavor), where she became Vice President. There, she could work with writers in all categories: books, film, and theater. Lionel Schriver, Scott Spencer, Eve Babitz, and Robin Cook are among the many writers she represented. She was also responsible for their movie and TV deals. Having worked at ICM and William Morris, she made a transition to running United Artists in New York so she could see the other side of the fence. “I couldn’t get back to being an agent fast enough!” Erica says. “I love finding my own writers and not being dependent on the committee mentality one needs as a buyer.”

Erica has been at Trident for fifteen years, where she has had the wonderful opportunity to work with fantastic writers, including Andrew Mayne, Barbara Lynch, Cherise Wolas, Esther the Wonder Pig, Eve Babitz, Jennifer L. Scott, Rachel Van Dyken, Robin Cook, Janie Kim, Ian Chorao, Kira Peikoff, and Robert Greenfield, and many others. She also uses her knowledge of the movie business to handle book to-film and TV rights for many of Trident’s agents.

Looking for: literary fiction, upmarket women’s fiction, thrillers (political/noir), cozy mysteries, strong voices, new stories!

Not looking for: I am not looking for children’s, middle grade, science-fiction, military fiction.

Agent

Victoria Skurnick, Levine Greenberg Rostan Literary Agency

Bio: Victoria Skurnick is with the Levine Greenberg Rostan Literary Agency, and represents both fiction and nonfiction. Among the books she has represented are Things We Do in the Dark, Little Secrets, It. Goes. So. Fast., The Lindbergh Nanny, Turn of Mind, Mr. Churchill’s Secretary, Jar of Hearts, Bad Things Happen, The Unexpected President, and The Dangerous Book for Dogs.

Victoria has been with LGR for 16 years; before joining the agency, she was editor-in-chief of The Book-of-the-Month Club, Senior Editor at St. Martin’s Press and Pocket Books, and Advertising Director of Holt. She is also the co-author of seven novels published under the name Cynthia Victor.

Clients: Victoria’s client list includes Susan Elia MacNeal, Jennifer Hillier, Mary Louise Kelly, Mariah Fredericks, Alice LaPlante, Harry Dolan, and Kermit Roosevelt among others.

Looking for: Suspense, literary fiction, and nonfiction.

Not looking for: Science fiction, fantasy, or romance.

Agent

Alexa Stark, Writers House

Bio: Alexa Stark joined Writers House in 2022, after ten years at Trident Media Group. She represents a range of literary and upmarket fiction and select nonfiction. Her authors have appeared on the New York Times Bestseller list and have won or been listed for the PEN/Faulkner Award, the National Book Foundation’s 5 under 35, the Rona Jaffe Award, the Ernest J. Gaines Award for Literary Excellence, The Young Lions Fiction Award, Lambda Literary Award, and the Center for Fiction First Novel Prize, among others. Raised in New York City, Alexa earned her BA in Comparative Literature at Columbia University. She lives in Brooklyn with her family.

Looking for: literary/upmarket suspense and social thrillers with a strong voice. She’s especially drawn to female-driven narratives, novels with a strong emotional core, and fiction that delves into the surreal or plays with genre in fresh and subversive ways.

Not looking for: Military thrillers, fantasy, science fiction, YA.

Agent

Nikki Terpilowski, Holloway Literary

Bio: Nikki established Holloway Literary in 2011.

Some of her publishing achievements include representing RITA nominated titles, RT Book Reviews’ Top Picks, and starred Publishers Weekly reviews. Notably, her Wall Street Journal, USA Today, Globe & Mail, and iBooks UK best-selling author Kimberly Belle was a Goodreads Choice Awards Nominee for Best Mystery/Thriller in 2017 and a nominee for 2023 ITW Thriller Awards for best audiobook.

She has also worked with several best-selling authors, including Amazon US & UK best-selling author Katie Oliver and USA Today best-selling author Catherine Bruns. Other notable clients include: Daytime Emmy nominee BlackSouthernBelle.com’s Michiel Perry, Food Television personality Saba Wahid and screenwriter Greg DePaul (Bride Wars, Saving Silverman).

Lastly, Nikki is a tv and film producer specializing in book IP with several projects in development, including the Haunted Harmony Mysteries with Hallmark.

Looking for: Nikki is looking for small-town romance, Regency romance, historical mystery, light fantasy and scifi in both adult and ya, fresh takes on domestic suspense, westerns, Afrofuturism, thrillers written by veterans/law enforcement/intelligence operatives, lifestyle non-fiction, southern fiction and magical women’s fiction.

Not looking for: cozy mysteries, crime fiction, horror, erotica, crimes against children, serial killers.

Agent

Ann Leslie Tuttle, Dystel, Goderich & Bourret LLC

Bio: Ann Leslie Tuttle joined DG&B in 2017 after working for 20 years at Harlequin Books where she worked on an extensive and varied list of bestselling and award-winning titles in romance and women’s fiction. She received her B.A. degree from the College of William and Mary and an M.A. from the University of Virginia. Helping to grow the careers of established and debut writers has always been Ann Leslie’s passion. Ann Leslie lives in New York City with her husband and young daughter, who is just discovering the magic of books and writing.

Looking for: Ann Leslie is especially seeking women’s fiction (e.g. relationships, family sagas, historical fiction and psychological thrillers) romance (e.g. romantic comedies, medical romance and contemporaries) and Southern Gothics on the adult fiction side as well as Middle Grade fiction and narrative nonfiction.

For thrillers/mystery/suspense, she is especially looking for domestic thrillers and cozy and historical mysteries and would welcome some #OwnVoices authors. She would also welcome some that have a speculative element, and thriller/mysteries for the YA market.

Not looking for: stories with a dystopian element or science fiction.

Agent

Jennifer Unter, The Unter Agency

Bio: Jennifer Unter has worked many aspects of the publishing industry for over 3 decades. After graduating from the University of Michigan, she began her career at Henry Holt & Co. in the editorial department before moving on to the Karpfinger Agency as a junior literary agent, while also attending law school at Fordham University School of Law. She then became an Associate at the entertainment firm of Cowan, DeBaets, Abrahams & Sheppard LLP where she practiced primarily in the areas of publishing and copyright law, and also acted as a literary agent on various book projects. She joined Robert Lewis Rosen Associates in 2000 as Vice President of the Literary Department. In 2008, she started The Unter Agency, LLC, a full-service boutique agency specializing in quality fiction, nonfiction and all types of children’s literature. In addition to placing projects at domestic and foreign publishers, she also sells to audio, film and television. She is a member of the Women’s Media Group, the Association of American Literary Agents (AALA), and the Westside Agents Group (WAG).

Looking for: psychological suspense, domestic thrillers, mysteries, upmarket women’s fiction.

Not looking for: sci fi/fantasy, military fiction, stories involving gratuitous violence or screenplays.

Editor

Jess Verdi, Crooked Lane Books

Bio: Jess Verdi joined Crooked Lane Books and Alcove Press as Senior Editor in 2022, after well over a decade in commercial fiction and romance editorial, including six years at Simon & Schuster. An author herself, Jess has a 360-degree view of the publishing industry, and enjoys working with authors to bring exciting, thought-provoking, and heartstring-tugging stories to the world. Throughout her career, it has been of the utmost importance to Jess to work with BIPOC, LGBTQ+, and other historically marginalized voices to bring their work to the publishing landscape—and this remains truer than ever!

Looking for: For Crooked Lane, she’s looking for feminist and progressive thrillers and suspense—edgy and sexy are great but nothing too dark or gory, please. Some of Jess’s recent Crooked Lane deals include Hollywood Hustle by Jon Lindstrom, On the Surface by Rachel McGuire, and Since She’s Been Gone by Sagit Schwartz.

For her Alcove list, she’s especially drawn to laugh-out-loud and swoony commercial rom-coms, romantasy with a strong hook, stories exploring gender and sexuality in fresh ways, and novels featuring complex family and/or racial dynamics.

Not looking for: Christian/inspirational, children’s books or YA, or stories about parents mourning the deaths of children.

Agent

Terrie Wolf, AKA Literary Management

Bio: After nearly two decades of interaction with authors, musicians, and dignitaries in the arenas of publishing, international media, large-scale events, and agricultural endeavors, Terrie founded AKA (Also Known As) Literary Management (AKALM) in 2009. A full member of the Association of American Literary Agents (AALA), she received the Agent of the Year Award in 2021 from American Christian Fiction Writers (ACFW) and was named a “Top 20 of 2020 Agent” by Writer’s Digest. A fourth-generation Coloradoan, Terrie maintains a global outlook since she spent nearly half her life in foreign locales including several places in the U.K., Mallorca, Netherlands, and Spain. Further, she has sold rights in over forty countries and thirty languages.

Looking for: Specifically, for ThrillerFest, Terrie is interested in stories that intrigue, enthrall, and impact readers. Her ideal fiction revolves around memorable characters, universal themes, and discussion-worthy concepts. She’s in search of anything and everything related to crime, regional, and book club reads that include elements of the mysterious, suspenseful, and thrilling. On the children’s side, Terrie looks for fun capers and mysteries, adventure, and kid-friendly works that encourage curious minds.

Clients: Terrie’s clients include J.D. Barker, J. Luke Bennecke, Byron Graves, Forest Jones, Margaret Mizushima, Maria Shriver, and the writing team of Jeff Ayers and Brian Tracey.