Mike O'Callaghan is the Las Vegas Sun executive editor.

THE TALK ABOUT WHO FILED FOR PUBLIC OFFICE and who didn't lasted for about 48 hours. The possibility of a Culinary Union strike put politics and the primary election, to take place in September, on the back burner if not off the stove. Despite the election being three months down the road it is on the road and will be an important event.

So let's take a look at the campaign picture first and then the struggle for a new contract between the Culinary workers and the hotels.

Even before the filing for office closed, some writers, television and radio commentators were voicing their concern about there being no viable Democratic candidate to face Gov. Kenny Guinn. Many forecast the demise of the Democratic Party because they believe there is a lack of credible candidates to face Republican incumbents on the state level. Guess they didn't see Commissioner Erin Kenny coming down the tracks headed for the number two spot on the ballot.

Political pundits who forecast the end of either political party in Nevada are showing they are newcomers or haven't read their history books. The Republicans haven't had a two-term Nevada governor since Charles Russell left office in 1959. That's 43 years ago, folks. Remember the death knell of the GOP that sounded as the Watergate scandal unfolded? I remember the Nevada State Legislature in 1977 that had only three Republicans in the Senate and five in the Assembly.

Nevada has a long history of changing political tides and its voters find it convenient to split their ballots and support candidates from two or three political parties. On several occasions they have voted for candidates of different parties for governor and lieutenant governor. Governors Russell, Grant Sawyer, Robert List and Bob Miller all had lieutenant governors from the other party. "I vote that way just to keep 'em honest," is the reason given by many Nevadans.

Some political observers sound upset because a few candidates have gone unchallenged. Consider the possibility that some incumbents are doing a good job and, in the voters' minds, deserve a pass. What should be of greater concern is the obvious moving of questionable candidates into homes and apartments to run against incumbents.

Although it's not new, people moving into districts and running for office against incumbents with the same name is more prevalent this year. I asked Assemblyman David Parks if he knew his opponent David Parks. "I've never met him," was his reply. After some checking we have found there may be good reason he hasn't met the person filing against him.

Assembly Speaker Richard Perkins has the reputation of calling his opponent and introducing himself. Kelwin Perkins withdrew from that race before the two had a chance to meet.

Commissioner Myrna Williams is probably wondering how long Michael Williams has lived in her district. She will probably find out during the coming weeks that it hasn't been very long.

Meanwhile, developments of successful negotiations yesterday between the union and Park Place Entertainment hotels and the Tropicana was good news for Clark County and Nevada. The clouds of a possible strike and the return of the pain suffered in 1984 have been parted and sunshine has broken through. Also of great importance is the contract agreement is for five years and not just two.

You might say that the plight of the people doing housekeeping jobs has carried the day in the minds of the public. Most Americans have traveled and spent time as hotel guests and appreciate the work done by these people. That's why most travelers feel obligated to leave some dollars on the bed before departing the hotel.

D. Taylor and other union leaders have really pushed to help the housekeeping staffs. This is possibly the result of them working a full shift as a maid to learn just how tough these jobs are on a person. Makes a guy wonder if a similar shift wouldn't soften the attitude of people on the other side of the bargaining table.

All is well that ends well. Let's hope the remainder of the strike clouds disappear next week.

archive