BORIS Johnson today led tributes to "heroic" ex-Cabinet Minister James Brokenshire who has died aged 53 after a battle with lung cancer.

The serving Tory MP and married father-of-three passed away in Darent Valley Hospital in Kent last night with his family by his bedside.

The ex-security minister was diagnosed with cancer in 2018 and had been in hospital since Sunday after his condition "rapidly deteriorated", a family statement said.

Colleagues across the political divide including three prime ministers paid tribute to "the nicest man in politics", who leaves behind wife Cathy and their three children.

'NICEST MAN IN POLITICS'

The PM said: "Desperately sad to hear the news about James Brokenshire.

"James was the nicest, kindest and most unassuming of politicians but also extraordinarily effective."

The PM commended his "heroic" fight against the disease and said it was "a measure of his resolve" that he returned to government after the first bout.

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer paid tribute to the "thoroughly decent man, dedicated and effective in all briefs he held. He fought his illness with dignity and bravery."

Transport Secretary Grant Shapps called him "quite simply the nicest man in politics. A true gentlemen."

Commons Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle has lowered the flags outside Parliament to half mast.

A statement from Brokenshire's family hailed him a hard-working minister who also worked tirelessly for his constituents since 2010.

"But most importantly, he was a loving father to his three children, a devoted husband to Cathy and a faithful friend to so many," it added.

His family thanked medics at London's Guys and St Thomas' hospital for treating the tumour on his right lung over the past few years.

CANCER FIGHT

The MP had shared an update with his followers in August revealing his cancer, which he was diagnosed with in 2018, had spread.

He had been discharged from hospital in February after a "frustrating resurgence" forced him to undergo surgery to remove his right lung.

He served under both David Cameron and Theresa May, first as Parliamentary Under-Secretary for Crime and Security.

Brokenshire then had a stint as Minister for Security and Immigration at the Home Office from 2014 to 2016.

The MP has also served in Cabinet as Housing Secretary and Northern Ireland Secretary.

Former PM Theresa May called him "an outstanding public servant, a talented minister and a loyal friend".

David Cameron added he was "devastated to hear the heartbreaking news that James Brokenshire has died, well before his time".

Brokenshire's death means there will be a by-election in Old Bexley and Sidcup to replace him.