LoveReading4Kids Says

This is the second novel from Mal Peet that features Paul Faustino (the first was Keeper) South America’s top sports journalist. It’s a brilliant thriller, beautifully written and the author’s passion for football shines through in the writing. If you’re football mad or want to be a journalist, don’t look further than this book for inspiration. Now available in audio CD. The first in the trilogy is Keeper and the final one is Exposure.

Shortlisted for the Booktrust Teenage Prize 2007.

LoveReading4Kids

Find This Book In

Suitable For:

13+ readers

YA readers

Other Genres:

Football World Cup 2018

Great Books for Boys

Fantasy / Magical

Recommendations:

Recommended Children's eBooks

Mal Peet Press Reviews

'Glorious, cartwheeling, magical, frightening' Frank Cottrell Boyce, The Guardian

'The Penalty weaves together slavery, tribal magic and themes of modern-day corruption... Notable for its exceptional humanity, stylistic clarity and neat construction.' The Sunday Times

'Another superb read from a master storyteller.' The Bookseller

'Physical, spiritual - Arthurian, even - this is true enchantment' TES

About Mal Peet

Mal Peet (June 1947 – 2 March 2015), winner of the Nestle Bronze Medal Award and the Branford Boase Award grew up in North Norfolk, and studied English and American Studies at the University of Warwick. Later he moved to south-west England and worked at a variety of jobs before turning full-time to writing and illustrating in the early 1990s. With his wife, Elspeth Graham, he wrote and illustrated many educational picture books for young children, and his cartoons appeared in a number of magazines. He and Elspeth lived in Exmouth, Devon.

Tamar won the Carnegie Medal and is a multi-layered tale of love and betrayal. He wrote three other linked novels, Keeper, The Penalty and Exposure, all featuring the football obsessed Paul Faustino, a sports journalist in South America who is reluctantly drawn into murders and mysteries.

Exposure won the 2009 Guardian Award for Children’s Fiction. On his award win, Mal said, “I’m totally thrilled to win the Guardian prize. I’ve been buying the newspaper for 35 years, so I’ve worked for it! In fact, if you subtract the prize money from what I’ve spent at the newsagents, the Guardian is way ahead on the deal! I don’t mind – the Guardian prize is very special. It’s judged by other writers so it’s pretty likely that if you win it, you deserve it.”

He also wrote a critically acclaimed adult novel, The Murdstone Trilogy

More About Mal Peet