Campaign songs have been in use since the days of George Washington. Politicians today often rely on popular hits, but because that can imply a musician supports the candidate, some have asked politicians to stop playing their songs.

In many cases, such as John F. Kennedy’s use of Frank Sinatra’s “High Hopes” in 1960, artists approve the use of their music as a means of endorsing or at least subtly signaling their approval of the candidate. Other times, politicians use pop songs without such approval, leading to anger and dismay – especially in cases where the songwriter holds opposing political views.

This has been happening with not uncommon frequency going back to Bruce Springsteen’s disapproval of President Ronald Reagan’s use of “Born in the U.S.A.” in 1984. And it has happened frequently since President Donald Trump began holding rallies some three years ago.

More: Green Day's 'American Idiot' hits top of British charts in time for Trump's visit

Also: Bill and Hillary Clinton honor Fleetwood Mac: 'I owe them more than anything'

Campaigns can procure blanket licenses from performing rights organizations such as the American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers and Broadcast Music Inc. While performers may have no legal recourse, public attacks on the politicians using their music – such as Neil Young’s onstage denunciation of Trump over the latter’s legally cleared use of “Rockin' in the Free World” – can lead to the song being dropped.

24/7 Wall St. has identified 35 instances of musicians who told politicians to stop using their music. Some emerged victorious, while others had less success.

1. Abba

Song: "Take a Chance on Me"

Politician: John McCain

Outcome: McCain's campaign dropped the song after the Swedish band sent them a cease-and-desist letter.

2. Adele

Song: "Rolling in the Deep," "Skyfall"

Politician: Donald Trump

Outcome: While Adele issued a statement that she did not directly grant Trump permission to play her songs, the campaign was undeterred, firing back that they have the legal rights to play them.

3. Aerosmith

Song: "Dream On"

Politician: Donald Trump

Outcome: Following a cease-and-desist letter, the licensing company pulled Aerosmith's songs from the Trump campaign's blanket license, forcing their removal.

4. Al Green

Song: "Let's Stay Together"

Politician: Mitt Romney

Outcome: Green's camp issued a copyright infringement complaint against a 2008 Romney ad featuring President Barack Obama singing Green's "Let's Stay Together." The video was briefly removed from YouTube as a result, but restored following Romney's defense of "fair use."

5. Axwell & Ingrosso

Song: "Something New"

Politician: Marco Rubio

Outcome: Rubio was forced to abandon the Swedish DJs "Something New" following a cease-and-desist letter. The group stated that they did not wish "to be affiliated with a particular party during the ... presidential race."

6. Bobby McFerrin

Song: "Don't Worry, Be Happy"

Politician: George H. W. Bush

Outcome: Vice President Bush was asked in 1988 to stop using McFerrin's infectious "Don't Worry, Be Happy" as his campaign theme song. Bush invited McFerrin to dinner in order to smooth things over but was rebuffed.

7. Bon Jovi

Song: "Who Says You Can't Go Home"

Politician: John McCain

Outcome: While Bon Jovi issued a disapproving statement about the McCain camp's use of their song, no legal action was taken and usage continued unabated.

8. Boston

Song: "More Than A Feeling"

Politician: Mike Huckabee

Outcome: In response to Huckabee playing "More Than A Feeling" on bass guitar at 2008 campaign events, Boston frontman Tom Scholz wrote a rather scathing letter, stating that "Boston has never endorsed a political candidate, and with all due respect, would not start by endorsing a candidate who is the polar opposite of most everything Boston stands for."

9. Bruce Springsteen

Song: "Born in the U.S.A."

Politician: Ronald Reagan, Bob Dole, Pat Buchanan

Outcome: An adviser to Reagan asked The Boss if he could use "Born in the U.S.A." during his re-election campaign in 1984. Springsteen turned him down. This episode is seen as the start of Springsteen's progressive awakening, and since then, he has become an outspoken liberal. In later years, Dole and Buchanan were similarly turned down.

10. Talking Heads

Song: "Road to Nowhere"

Politician: Charlie Crist

Outcome: The Florida Senate candidate used the Talking Heads song in a 2010 attack video against rival Marco Rubio. Talking Heads lead singer David Byrne sued Crist over use of the song and won. Crist agreed to pay an undisclosed sum and issued an apology on YouTube.

11. Dropkick Murphys

Song: "I'm Shipping Up to Boston"

Politician: Scott Walker

Outcome: When Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker strode out to the strains of "I'm Shipping Up to Boston" at an event for presidential aspirants in Iowa, the punk band Dropkick Murphys was not happy. The group fired off a tweet asking Walker to not use their music, adding, "We literally hate you!" The band said on Facebook that it wasn't looking to sue anyone over the issue; it just didn't want to be associated with "certain events or people."

12. Elton John

Song: "Rocket Man," "Tiny Dancer"

Politician: Donald Trump

Outcome: Trump admires Elton John. He even referenced one of the British singer's songs by disparagingly calling North Korean leader Kim Jong-un "Rocket Man." John has known the president for decades, but he turned down Trump's invitation to perform at his inauguration. John also had asked that his songs not be used during the 2016 presidential campaign but Trump continues to use songs such as "Tiny Dancer" at political rallies.

13. Explosions in the Sky

Song: "Your Hand in Mine"

Politician: Ted Cruz

Outcome: The Texas rockers were able to force the senator to take down a campaign ad featuring their music in 2016 because of copyright issues.

14. Foo Fighters

Song: "My Hero"

Politician: John McCain

Outcome: Foo Fighters' Dave Grohl, who was a supporter of Barack Obama during the 2008 presidential campaign against McCain, asked that the Republican stop using the song. The McCain campaign continued to use it, saying that although it respects copyright, it had the legal rights to use the song.

15. Heart

Song: "Barracuda"

Politician: Sarah Palin

Outcome: "Barracuda" was one of Heart's biggest hits, and Republican vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin – whose nickname was "Sarah Barracuda" in high school – used the song at campaign rallies in 2008. She continued to do so, claiming she had the right to use it because of a blanket license from ASCAP.

16. Isaac Hayes

Song: "Soul Man"

Politician: Bob Dole

Outcome: The campaign of Dole, the Republican candidate for president in 1996, reworked the 1967 Sam & Dave hit "Soul Man" (co-written by Isaac Hayes and David Porter) to "I'm a Dole man." But the rights were held by Rondor Music, which threatened to sue the Dole campaign for $10,000 every time it used the song. The campaign stopped using it.

17. Jackson Browne

Song: "Running On Empty"

Politician: John McCain

Outcome: McCain's 2008 presidential campaign used one of Browne's iconic songs to mock Democratic candidate Barack Obama about his statements on gasoline conservation. Browne filed suit against the McCain campaign and won an undisclosed settlement and a public apology from the Republican senator.

18. John Mellencamp

Song: "Pink Houses," "R.O.C.K. in the U.S.A."

Politician: Ronald Reagan, George W. Bush, John McCain

Outcome: The heartland rocker rejected three Republican candidates. The 1984 Reagan presidential campaign wanted to use "Pink Houses," and Mellencamp was opposed. He also asked Bush not to include "R.O.C.K. in the U.S.A." in 2000. McCain used the Mellencamp tunes "Our Country" and "Pink Houses" during the 2008 presidential race until the rocker requested that McCain stop.

19. Journey

Song: "Don't Stop Believin' "

Politician: Newt Gingrich

Outcome: Gingrich used "Don't Stop Believin' " during political events in 2011. Journey never believed in Gingrich and demanded that he not use the song. He continued to use it until he dropped out of the presidential race the following year.

20. K'naan

Song: "Wavin' Flag"

Politician: Mitt Romney

Outcome: The Romney campaign was threatened with legal action by representatives of the Somali-Canadian artist during the 2012 presidential race. Reps for the Republican presidential candidate said they were licensed to use the song by ASCAP and BMI, but the campaign stopped using "Wavin' Flag" in deference to K'Naan's views.

21. Katrina and the Waves

Song: "Walking on Sunshine"

Politician: Michele Bachmann

Outcome: Katrina Leskanich, lead singer of the British-American band, asked the Minnesota congresswoman in 2011 to refrain from using the group's biggest hit at campaign rallies and also threatened legal action. But Bachmann continued to use it.

22. MGMT

Song: "Kids"

Politician: Nicolas Sarkozy

Outcome: It's not only American politicians who run afoul of artists when using their music without their permission. French President Nicolas Sarkozy's UMP party used the indie band's "Kids" song without permission. UMP admitted its mistake and eventually paid the band about $40,000, which MGMT donated to an artists' rights group.

23. Neil Young

Song: "Rockin' in the Free World"

Politician: Donald Trump

Outcome: Trump used "Rockin' in the Free World" when he announced he was running for president in 2015. Young, a Canadian-born musician who backed Bernie Sanders, objected. Trump reps said they had permission to use the song, and Young eventually relented, saying, "Once the music goes out, everybody can use it."

24. Orleans

Song: "Still the One"

Politician: George W. Bush, John McCain

Outcome: During his 2004 re-election campaign, Bush drew the ire of John Hall, who co-wrote the soft-rockers' 1976 hit. Hall, a former Democratic legislator from New York state, said the Bush campaign never got permission to use the upbeat pop tune. The Bush campaign stopped using the song. McCain, who also used the song, ignored cease-and-desist letters in 2008.

25. R.E.M.

Song: "It's the End of the World as We Know It (And I Feel Fine)"

Politician: Donald Trump

Outcome: The Georgia rockers did not feel fine about Trump using their stream-of-consciousness take on the news on the campaign trail in 2015. Lead singer Michael Stipe launched an expletive-laced reaction when Trump walked out to the tune at a Tea Party event, and the band asked him to not use it. Apparently, R.E.M. never pursued legal recourse. In a Facebook post, the band said it did not "authorize or condone the use of our music."

26. The Rolling Stones

Song: "You Can't Always Get What You Want," "Sympathy for the Devil," "Brown Sugar"

Politician: Donald Trump

Outcome: While the Stones repeatedly asked Trump not to play their songs, they eventually accepted that at some point there was no way to stop him as he held the legal rights to do so.

27. Rush

Song: "Tom Sawyer," "The Spirit of Radio"

Politician: Rand Paul

Outcome: The Canadian rock band asked 2010 Senate nominee Paul to stop playing their music at rallies. Though some have interpreted early band lyrics as having libertarian leanings, Rush's attorney stated it was "not a political issue" but "a copyright issue."

28. Sam & Dave

Song: "Hold On I'm Coming"

Politician: Barack Obama

Outcome: Democrats have been asked to stop playing music as well. In 2008, Sam Moore of Sam & Dave asked Obama to refrain from playing his "Hold On I'm Coming" for fear it would look like the singer had endorsed the candidate. The Obama campaign agreed to stop.

29. Silversun Pickups

Song: "Panic Switch"

Politician: Mitt Romney

Outcome: The Silversun Pickups' song was reportedly played once as a Romney rally was being set up, yet this was enough to push the band to send a cease-and-desist letter. The Romney campaign maintained that they had the rights to play the song, but despite this they didn't play it again.

30. Sting

Song: "Brand New Day"

Politician: Al Gore, George W. Bush

Outcome: Both Bush and Gore hoped to use "Brand New Day" as their campaign theme song in 2000, but they were turned down by the English rocker.

31. Survivor

Song: "Eye of the Tiger"

Politician: Mike Huckabee, Newt Gingrich

Outcome: The Huckabee campaign was forced to pay a $25,000 settlement for unlicensed use of "Eye of the Tiger," best known as the theme song from "Rocky III." Gingrich also paid a settlement over use of the song in 2012, though the amount was not disclosed.

32. The Heavy

Song: "How You Like Me Now"

Politician: Newt Gingrich

Outcome: Gingrich stopped using the song at rallies after receiving a cease-and-desist letter from the British indie-rock band's music publisher.

33. Tom Petty

Song: "I Won't Back Down," "American Girl"

Politician: George W. Bush, John McCain, Michele Bachmann

Outcome: While Petty was able to prevent both Bush and McCain from using his songs, presidential candidate Bachmann was less willing to back down, playing "American Girl" even after receiving a cease-and-desist letter.

34. Twisted Sister

Song: "We're Not Gonna Take It"

Politician: Paul Ryan, Donald Trump

Outcome: In response to a harsh statement from Twisted Sister frontman Dee Snider over Ryan's one-time use of their 1984 hit, the campaign told Politico, "We're Not Gonna Play It anymore."

Snider achieved similar results by quietly asking Trump (the two are said to be friends) to abstain from playing the song at rallies.

35. Van Halen

Song: "Right Now"

Politician: John McCain

Outcome: While singer Sammy Hagar said he was honored a presidential candidate used his words, bandmates Eddie and Alex Van Halen issued a statement clarifying that they had not given permission for McCain to use the song. McCain continued using the song regardless.