We take a look at the life of philosopher and former Dulwich resident GE Moore, whose work had a profound impact on the Bloomsbury Group among others

Words by Mark Bryant

This year marks the 60th anniversary of the death of old Alleynian GE Moore (1873-1958). One of the most significant British philosophers of the 20th century – whose name is linked with his great contemporaries, Bertrand Russell and Ludwig Wittgenstein – he was professor of philosophy at Cambridge University for 14 years and received the prestigious Order of Merit for his work.

Moore was also one of the famous Cambridge Apostles, along with John Maynard Keynes, Leonard Woolf, Lytton Strachey, EM Forster and others, and his best-known book – Principia Ethica (The Principles of Ethics) – influenced Virginia Woolf and the Bloomsbury Group.

Less well known is that he and his three brothers were all educated at Dulwich College and his four sisters attended Dulwich High School.

George Edward Moore (he preferred to be called simply “Moore”, though his wife called him “Bill”) was born at Hastings Lodge in Dulwich Wood Park on November 4, 1873.

The family had moved there in 1871 from Hastings (hence the house’s name), where his father, Dr Daniel Moore, had been a GP. Moore’s grandfather was the physician and writer George Moore (author of The Power of the Soul over the Body and other semi-psychological works) and his great-uncle (uncle of his mother, Henrietta Sturge), was Joseph Sturge, the prominent philanthropist who had toured the USA before the Civil War in support of the abolition of slavery.

As Moore says in An Autobiography, Hastings Lodge was “a typical middle-class suburban house of that period. I believe that my father and mother were its first occupants, the immediate neighbourhood having only recently been developed.

“It was a detached house, built of red bricks, and standing in a garden of about half an acre, in which there were at least three good-sized oak trees – relics of the oak-wood which until recently had covered the whole slope of the hill.”

It was a well-heeled neighbourhood – August (later Sir August) Manns, the distinguished conductor and musical director of the Crystal Palace, lived at “Larkbeare”, 4 Dulwich Wood Park, in the 1880s – however, the main attraction of the area to his parents was Dulwich College.

At the time of Moore’s birth he had two elder brothers (his oldest brother was Thomas Sturge Moore, later a poet and artist who was a friend of Yeats), both of whom went to Dulwich College (as did, later, a younger brother).

He also had two elder sisters (and later two younger sisters – making eight children in total), who all went to Dulwich High School on the junction of Thurlow Park Road and Lancaster Avenue near West Dulwich Station.

The building later housed a drama school for the Old Vic theatre (famous alumni include Joan Plowright, Keith Michell and Prunella Scales) and is now Rosemead Preparatory School.

Moore attended Dulwich College from September 1882 to July 1892. As he later recalled: “As soon as I was eight years old, I was sent, like my two elder brothers before me, to Dulwich College.

“I used to walk (or partly run) the mile there and the mile back twice every weekday, except Wednesdays and Saturdays which were half-holidays. I stayed at the college for no less than 10 years and two terms in all.”

Showing an aptitude for Greek and Latin, he studied mostly the classics, together with some French, German and maths. Though he said he was “rather lonely at school”, he got on well with his classmates and added: “On the whole, I enjoyed my life at school, and was very well satisfied with it; and I left Dulwich with a strong affection both for the school as a whole and for very many people in it.”

His near contemporaries included the writer AEW Mason (DC 1878-84), the explorer, Ernest Shackleton (DC 1887-90) and Nelson Henderson, who left in 1883. Nelson was the son of South London Press founder James Henderson (for more on this story, see The Dulwich Diverter November/December 2016 edition).

However, although Moore makes no mention of his schoolfellows in his memoirs, he does name four teachers who “had a great influence on my intellectual development”.

The first was Edward Rendall, the head of music, who had written the score to the school song, Pueri Alleyniensis. Moore was in the school choir and later took private lessons from Rendall in singing and organ-playing.

Next was the classical remove master, C Bryans, who was a great admirer of German commentators of the classics: “I thus got a grounding in German, which was very useful when later I wanted to read German philosophers in the original.”

The third was the classical sixth master, WT Lendrum (later known as WT Vesey), who left in 1890 to become a Fellow of Gonville & Caius College, Cambridge, and was a leading authority on the Greek poet Pindar (Vesey later taught the poet and classicist AE Housman).

As Moore wrote: “It was undoubtedly mainly due to the very thorough training he gave me… that I was able subsequently to win, first, a major scholarship at Trinity, then to obtain the highest honours then possible in the first part of the classical tripos, and finally to win the Craven University scholarship.”

However, “by far the most remarkable man of the four was the headmaster, AH Gilkes”. A paraphrased section of Moore’s memoir reads: “He was a great admirer of Socrates as depicted by Plato; and some of us thought that he himself had some, by no means negligible, resemblance to Socrates. He had, I think, in a wide sense, a very philosophic mind and I think his influence on me must have been, in one way or another, enormous.”

Gilkes remained as headmaster until 1914, teaching PG Wodehouse and Raymond Chandler, though not CS Forrester (see The Dulwich Diverter November/December 2017 for more on Forrester), who did not arrive at the school until 1915.

In April 1888, when Moore was 14, his maternal great uncle, George Sturge, died and, as a widower with no children, left the family his large house on the south side of Sydenham Hill Road (now Kirkdale).

Later that year, Moore and his siblings moved into their new home, Woodthorpe, now the site of Eliot Bank Primary School in Thorpewood Avenue (named after the house).

This was his family home during the rest of his time at Dulwich College and for a short period after he went up to Trinity College, Cambridge in June 1892 (his parents retired to Devon in 1895).

He had not expected to become a philosopher. As he later recalled: “I came up to Cambridge expecting to do nothing but classics there. I had indeed at Dulwich read Plato’s Protagoras under Gilkes; but I certainly was not then very keenly excited by any of the philosophical questions which that dialogue raises, and I do not think I had read any other philosophy at all.”

It was his new Cambridge friend, Bertrand Russell, who suggested that he should switch to philosophy. As Russell says in his own autobiography: “In my third year I met GE Moore, who was then a freshman, and for some years he fulfilled my idea of genius.

“He was in those days beautiful and slim, with a look almost of inspiration, and with an intellect as deeply passionate as Spinoza’s. He had a kind of exquisite purity.

“His people lived in Dulwich, where I once went to see them. His father was a retired medical man, his mother wore a large china brooch with a picture of the Colosseum on it. He had sisters and brothers in large numbers, of whom the most interesting was the poet, Sturge Moore.”

In 1894, while Moore’s family home was still Woodthorpe, he took Russell’s advice and began to study philosophy. The same year he read a paper to the Cambridge Apostles group entitled Achilles or Patroclus? which, together with his later book, Principia Ethica had considerable influence on the Bloomsbury Group’s ideas on friendship.

The Bloomsbury Group first met on Thursday evenings at a house in Gordon Square, which was then the home of the four children of Leslie Stephen (who had died in 1904).

It was begun by the eldest, Thoby, then studying at Cambridge University, who invited his friends from Trinity College (of which Moore was a Fellow, 1898-1904) – including Leonard Woolf and Lytton Strachey (both Apostles, like Moore) and Clive Bell.

Moore’s Principia Ethica had been published the previous year and made a huge impact and was hotly debated in Gordon Square. As Virginia Woolf says in her essay Old Bloomsbury (1920-21): “Part of the charm of those Thursday evenings was that they were astonishingly abstract. It was not only that Moore’s book had set us all discussing philosophy, art, religion; it was that the atmosphere was abstract in the extreme.”

Lytton Strachey said the book had “wrecked and shattered all writers on ethics from Aristotle and Christ to Herbert Spencer and Mr Bradley” and John Maynard Keynes said it was “exciting, exhilarating, the beginning of a renaissance, the opening of a new heaven on a new earth”.

Later, after her marriage, Virginia Woolf got to know Moore well, and she even quotes from him in her first novel The Voyage Out (1915), in which the “black volume of philosophy” read by her character, Helen Ambrose, is Principia Ethica (though it is not named as such).

In 1939 Moore retired. During World War Two he moved to the USA (1940-44) before returning to Cambridge where he continued as editor of the philosophical journal Mind (which he had edited since 1921), until 1947. He was awarded the Order of Merit in 1951 and died in Cambridge on October 24, 1958.

Though he died 60 years ago Moore is not forgotten in Dulwich. In 2017, his links with the Bloomsbury Group were remembered when the Dulwich Picture Gallery mounted the first major exhibition of works by painter Vanessa Bell, the older sister of Virginia Woolf. And in 2014 Dulwich College set up the annual GE Moore lecture series in his honour, each one of which reflects on an aspect of the college’s life and history.

………………………………….