What a bizarre and fascinating movie, with quite a bit to think about. I won’t bother with the plot, except to say it’s melodramatic and has some interesting (and pretty unique) turns in its short 72 minute run time. The things which stood out:

- The KKK reference. It seems to me a critique of organized thugs who operate outside the law, or in this case, essentially are the law, while at the same time, not wanting to be direct about the racism of the real-life Klan. “The Order” in this film is a large group of armed townsfolk who don hoods and robes at night, then burst into homes and haul people off to answer for behavior they deem…

The way the movie portrays the KKK deeply disturbs me. I know it's called the Order, but we all know that it's anything but orderly. It looks/acts/behaves like the KKK, and by falsely showing it as a vigilante justice group The Mating Call really demeans their victims and absolves their racist/classist hatred. Even worse is that with a few rewrites, "the Order" could have been replaced with a different entity altogether. Make it a high society group of blue noses who don't go around wearing hoods and lynching people based on religion/race. The nonsensically confused plot, with its thoroughly idiotic characters who don't act like real people, would have stayed largely the same had Hughes changed the vigilante group from…

Man Struggles to Consummate His Marriages Amid Flappers and Klansmen

"The Mating Call" is an interesting oddball late silent film from kazillionaire producer Howard Hughes and director James Cruze (perhaps best known for "The Covered Wagon" (1923)). What seemingly starts out as yet another of many WWI-themed romances of the era, quickly turns into a series of seedy love triangles, anachronistic flappers, vigilante justice consisting of floggings performed by a black-hooded clandestine organization called the "Order" that is similar to the white-hooded Ku Klux Klan, and amidst all of the hullabaloo, there's a pre-Code nude swimming scene to top it off. And most of it takes place on the farm of star Thomas Meighan's character. The main thrust of the…