News

Lucien Freud dies at 88

Painter Lucian Freud – grandson of Sigmund Freud – died on July 20 in London at age 88. Copious commentary everywhere for this master portraitist and figure painter. The Washington Post obituary is is a good overview of the artist’s story.

Tyler Gallery Assistant Director Shayna McConville relocates to Ohio

Shayna McConville, assistant director of exhibitions and public programs at Tyler’s Temple Gallery had her last day at the gallery recently. She is moving to Kettering Ohio, near Dayton to be near family and to take up her new position as Cultural Arts Manager for the City of Kettering. McConville was temporary acting gallery director until Rob Blackson came on board this year. Happy trails, Shayna.

Magic Garden Celebrates Philly Creativity

On July 30 from noon until 10 PM, the Philadelphia Magic Gardens will host their 4th annual summer festival complete with music, dance, poetry, interactive activities, and live art. Visit the Garden’s news page for all the details.

Delaware Art Museum centennial

The Delaware Art Museum celebrates its centennial this year. Among other shows and activities, they announced a regional juried show, with juror John B. Ravenal, the Sydney and Frances Lewis Family Curator of Modern and Contemporary Art at the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts. The exhibition isn’t until October 2012 and we will keep you posted on application details when we get them.

Opportunities

We Glow in The Dark (WGITD) artist call

We Glow In The Dark, a Mural Arts Program project by artist Torkwase Dyson that involves a traveling solar-powered sculpture is seeking proposals for original, site-specific projects that relate to WGITD. For all the details of the project, visit Dyson’s WGITD blog. Submissions can be made through this Mural Arts Program page.

BECA seeks director(s)

The Bridge for Emerging Contemporary Art is seeking a new director — or a group– that can run the operations of this online international arts organization. BECA is based in New Mexico, but they say the job can be done from anywhere in the U.S. The application deadline is September 1.

CRED magazine

CRED magazine, a start-up publication of the Village of Arts and Humanities, aims to amplify the voice of Philadelphia’s creative youth (defined as under age 24). The launch date is set for November 2011. Pass the word on to young people you think might be interested in taking photos, writing or editing this new magazine. For info on how to get involved with CRED, e-mail Aviva Kapust at aviva@villagearts.org

Artist News

Janell Olah has an exhibition of one of her site-specific installations at Flashpoint in Washington, D.C. opening this Saturday, July 30.

The windows of Philadelphia Traction Company at 41st and Haverford Avenue got an exterior makeover yesterday courtesy artist Joe Boruchow, who will install eleven large-scale black and white prints on the boarded up windows of the former 19th century trolley factory that is now home to a group of artists who work really big (Billy Blaise Dufala, Jordan Griska) and to some fabricators and art restorers.