Juan Mata

Mata made his Castilla debut in the 2006/07 season and moved to Valencia in 2007. The Asturian currently plays for Manchester United in the English Premier League.

Foto:Chema DíazDiario as

David Aganzo

Aganzo broke through to the first team in 1999 under Vicente del Bosque at the age of 18 but was moved on to Espanyol just one season later.

Foto:Chema DíazDiario as

Alberto Bueno

Bueno played with the U-14 side in 2001-2002 and eventually made his first team debut in 2008 going on to feature in the league and Champions League for the Bernabeu outfit that season. Just one year later he moved to Real Valladolid on a five year deal.

Foto:Jesús AguileraDiario as

Juanmi Callejón

The twin brother of current Napoli player Jose Maria Callejon played in a full pre-season with the first team in 2009. On August 11 he was sold to Real Mallorca and now plays his football in Saudi Arabia.

Foto:CHEMA DIAZDiario as

Carlos Aranda

Aranda debuted with the Real Madrid first team in a Champions League game against Norwegian side Molde in 1999. He reappeared in the UCL again participating in the game against Lokomotiv Moscow. In 2001/2002 he was sent out on loan to second tier outfit N

Foto:Jesús AguileraDiario as

David Barral

The Cadiz born player featured for Real Madrid C in 2002/03 and was then moved to Fuenlabrada on loan. He returned to the Bernabeu and formed part of the 04/05 Castilla first team. Following the relegation of Castilla in the 2006/07 season, Barral moved t

Foto:Helios de la RubiaDiario as

Samuel Eto´o

The Cameroon born signed for RM Castilla in 1996 and following relegation was sent on loan to Club Deportivo Leganés for a season. He returned to Real Madrid making his top flight debut on December 5th 1998 and was then released on loan to Espanyol where

Foto:Chema DíazDiario as

Javi García

Garcia played under Capello in 2006 and failing to secure regular first team playing time was sold to Osasuna. A buy-back clause saw him return to Madrid for the 2008/09 pre-season but was subsequently sold to Portuguese giants SL Benfica.

Foto:Jesús AguileraDiario as

Joselu

Real Madrid purchased the striker from Celta on August 31,2009 for a fee of 1.5 million euro. He returned to the capital and played with Castilla for one season. His carrera has taken him to Germany and England where he currently plays for Newcastle Unite

Foto:Dani SastreDiario as

Negredo

Negredo starred for Real Madrid Castilla in the 2006/07 season in Segunda and was used by Fabio Capello in the first team for random Copa del Rey games. In July 2007 he moved to UD Almería then in the top flight. He now plays in Turkey for Besiktas.

Foto:Jesús RubioDiario as

Odegaard

Real Madrid secured the Norwegian teenager amidst competition from Bayern Munich and Liverpool. After two seasons with RM Castilla and sporadic starts with the first team the teenager was sent on a 18 month loan deal to Dutch outfit SC Heerenveen,

Javier Portillo

Despite establishing a goal scoring record with Real Madrid under age categories, Portillo never established a foothold in the first team and wound up his carrear in 2015 with Alicante based Herciules.

Foto:Jesús AguileraDiario as

Roberto Soldado

Soldado made his Real Madrid debut in 2005 despite being a regular for RM Castilla. After a loa move to Osasuna he failed to impress then coach Bernd Schuster and after just playing seven games for the first team was sold to Getafe in 2009. He currently p

Foto:Carlos MartínezDiario as