Real Madrid's academy is one of the most efficient in Europe at creating stars of the future.

The path to the top is a long one, with various youth teams at different age groups before you get to Raul Gonzalez's Castilla and Zinedine Zidane's first team.

These are the 20 most promising youngsters currently in La Fabrica, from the Alevin B team right up to Castilla.

Alevin B - Under-11

Mateo Pozo (born 2009)

Mateo is the captain of the Alevin B team. The central midfielder has lots of quality, is ambidextrous and possesses a powerful shot. He's one of the team's top goalscorers.

Alevin A - Under-12

Izan Lucas Muriano (2008)

Just before coronavirus put a stop to football, the Alevin A side beat Atletico Madrid to go top of their league, with Izan scoring two goals from the left wing. The forward is skilful, a goalscorer and extra competitive.

Infantil B - Under-13

Alvaro Gonzalez (2007)

The goalkeeper, who is already 1.72 metres tall, is compared to former Real Madrid academy player Antonio Adan.

Carlos Diez (2007)

The captain of the Infantil B side, Carlos was the best player at last summer's LaLiga Promises tournament. The midfielder is good on the ball and a strong character, while he was tipped for big things by former coach Xabi Alonso.

Paulo Iago (2007)

The attacking midfielder prefers to play on the left wing and stands out for his dribbling and passing skills. He's one of the gems of La Fabrica.

Jose Antonio Reyes Jr. (2007)

The son of the late Jose Antonio Reyes, he arrived at Real Madrid from Leganes last summer. Jose is a quick, powerful forward with an eye for goal. He was the top scorer at LaLiga Promises in December, scoring four goals in the final.

Infantil A - Under-14

Alejandro Martin (2006)

The right winger is known for his ability to beat a man and stands out for his speed, power and dribbling.

Cadete B - Under-15

Iker Gil (2005)

The poacher of La Fabrica, Iker's goalscoring figures increase year upon year. He's the talismanic striker of Gonzalo Cuenca's Cadete B side and has captained Spain's under-15s.

Cadete A - Under-16

Nicolas Paz (2004)

Son of former footballer Pablo Paz, Nicolas is a stylish midfielder and is often compared to Guti.

Abraham Nobrega (2004)

The former Atletico Madrid and Getafe forward is a natural goalscorer and an imposing figure at 1.80 metres tall.

Juvenil C - Under-17

Bruno Iglesias (2003)

They say that he's the most talented player in the academy. The midfielder has quality on the ball and is a physical presence. He likes to score goals, too, and is Juvenil C's second top scorer.

Takuhiro Nakai, 'Pipi' (2003)

Pipi has risen through the ranks at La Fabrica and is highlighted for his quality and vision from midfield. This is the Japanese player's sixth year at the club and he's still improving.

Israel Salazar (2003)

Known as 'Sala', the forward is the key player both for the Juvenil C team and Spain's under-17s. He's the Juvenil C's top goalscorer.

Juvenil B - Under-18

Lucas Canizares (2002)

The son of legendary former Real Madrid and Valencia goalkeeper Santiago, Lucas is an assured and authoritative figure in between the sticks. He's already played for the Juvenil A side and has been called up to Castilla, too.

Alvaro Carrillo (2002)

The centre-back is very accomplished on the ball and is a leader at the back. He started for Spain at last year's Under-17 World Cup.

Juvenil A - Under-19

Miguel Gutierrez (2001)

The Juvenil A captain is one of the team's most important players at left-back. He's good physically, has quality and strikes a ball well. He's already trained with the Real Madrid first team.

Ivan Morante (2001)

The central midfielder only arrived at La Fabrica in January after moving from Villarreal. He'll move up to Castilla next season.

Sergio Arribas (2001)

The attacking midfielder is known for his quality on the ball and agility. He's been compared to David Silva and is one of the top goalscorers for the Juvenil A side.

Castilla - Segunda Division B

Antonio Blanco (2000)

The midfielder is known for his reading of the game, precision on the ball and long-range shooting. He's always been a leader and is a European champion with Spain at U17 and U19 level.

Miguel Baeza (2000)

Castilla's top scorer this season, Baeza also stands out for his ability to set his teammates up. If Real Madrid made a compilation of his best goals in his eight years at La Fabrica, it'd be quite a watch.