edit

Brief History

In the Bronze Age, several states flourished in the area of Greater Armenia, including the Hittite Empire (at the height of its power), Mitanni (South-Western historical Armenia), and Hayasa-Azzi (1500–1200 BC). Around 600 BC, the Kingdom of Armenia was established under the Orontid Dynasty. The kingdom reached its height between 95 and 66 BC under Tigranes the Great. After the fall of the Armenian kingdom in AD 428, most of Armenia was incorporated as a marzpanate within the Sassanid Empire. Following an Armenian rebellion in AD 451, Christian Armenians maintained their religious freedom, while Armenia gained autonomy. After the Marzpanate period (428–636), Armenia emerged as the Emirate of Armenia, an autonomous principality within the Arabic Empire. In 1045, the Byzantine Empire conquered Bagratid Armenia. Soon, the other Armenian states fell under Byzantine control as well. The Byzantine rule was short lived, as in 1071 Seljuk Turks defeated the Byzantines and conquered Armenia. During the 1230s, the Mongol Empire conquered the Zakaryan Principality, as well as the rest of Armenia. The Russian Empire incorporated Eastern Armenia in 1813 and 1828. Roughly half-way between the Caspian Sea and the Black Sea, Armenia has long been a trampling ground for the world's major civilizations, and the 20th century was no exception. Western neighbour Turkey clashed with Russia in the first quarter of the century and Armenia was dragged into the conflict. After suffering mass genocide at the hands of the Turks, Armenia passed into Russian control, till the collapse of the U.S.S.R. at the start of the 1990s. And in its first decade as an independent nation (in recent times, that is), Armenia has come head to head with neighbouring Azerbaijan.

edit

Geography

Armenia lies on the edge of Europe, bordered by Turkey, Georgia, Azerbaijan and Iran. Nagorno Karabakh is a controversial piece of land in Azerbaijan near the border, which is controlled by Armenia but officially recognised as a part of Azerbaijan. You can only reach it from Armenia by a small corridor. Southwest of Armenia lies Nakhchivan, an exclave of Azerbaijan.

Armenia is a small but very mountainous country with many peaks reaching up to 4095 metres (Mount Aragats, not to be confused with Mount Ararat!). The biggest body of water is Lake Sevan, east of the capital Yerevan. While the northern parts of Armenia towards the border with Georgia have more forests and green parts in general, the west is very rugged with endless plains at high elevation. The country is regularly struck by major earthquakes. The 1988 earthquake near Gyumri was one of the most devastating ones ever.

edit

Events and Festivals

One Nation, One Culture

During March, the Armenian diaspora comes together in an artistic display of national unity in the capital city. Taking place every two years, the ‘One Nation, One Culture’ festival is an attempt to reunite Armenians who were forced to relocate after the Genocide. There are no prescriptions as the festival is based on what each individual and artist brings to the table, making it a little different every year. Visitors to Yerevan during this period have circus acts, fetes, cinema screenings, literature and poetry readings to look forward to.

Yerevan International Film Festival ‘Golden Apricot’

Held annually every July, the Yerevan International Film festival, or the Golden Apricot as it is colloquially known, is a smorgasbord of the best independent films from around the globe. Bringing together directors, producers and cinematographers from Armenia and beyond, the festival aims to live up to its mission statement, a ‘Crossroads of Cultures and Civilizations.’ If you’re a movie buff, the event is well worth experiencing as it showcases some of the most riveting and poignant contemporary modern cinema.

Vartavar

What started as a Pagan festival, Vartavar, or the ‘World of Water Day’ happens country-wide in July, 14 weeks after the Christian Easter holiday. This festival is particularly popular with children who thoroughly enjoy the main activity – pouring buckets of water on people as a blessing and a sign of cleansing. While most visitors may not understand the significance, tourists generally appreciate the cool water as a much-needed respite from the scorching temperatures of the Armenian summer.

Extreme Sports Festival

A new addition to the Armenian events calendar, the Extreme Sports Festival takes place from August 1 to 10. Several countries compete in death defying feats and technical sporting skills. For 10 days the usually serene Lake Sevan area is transformed into an adrenaline junkie’s paradise to partake in paintball, rock climbing, paragliding and much more.

HIGH FEST International Theater Festival

Taking place from October 1 through 8 every year, the main theater festival in the region hosts more than 250 artists from 30 different countries around the world. HIGH FEST aims to create a global culture of collaboration and inspiration and visitors can look forward to multi-genre art such as street performances, mime, dramatic and comedic theater, dance and puppetry.

edit

Weather

While winters in Armenia can be bitterly cold with temperatures way below zero at night from December to March, summers can be very hot with temperatures up to 40 °C, especially in the capital Yerevan which is on lower elevation. Lake Sevan and the mountains have even colder winters but milder and therefore more pleasant weather during the summer. For visiting the country both the spring months of late April to early June and the autumn months of September to late October are the most pleasant times for travelling. Rainfall is relatively low with March and April being the wettest months. Yerevan has only about 350 mm of rain a year.

edit

Money

See also: Money Matters

The official currency of Armenia is the Armenian Dram (AMD). One dram is divided into 100 luma. Banknotes come in 500, 1,000, 5,000, 10,000, 20,000 and 50,000 dram, while coins are in denominations of 10, 20, 50, 100, 200 and 500 dram.

edit

Work

Visitors cannot legally work without a permit or residency card (available to ethnic Armenian visitors). They may be able to find freelance type tasks such as tutoring English or editing/marketing type work, and can get employers to sponsor them for longer term work visas (3/6/12 month). There are plentiful volunteer opportunities as well, which can also gain you a work visa.

edit

Language

Armenian is the language to go in the country. It is an Indo-European language with Persian influences. Its alphabet is unique to any other alphabet and learning it will help you with the most important things like menus and destinations, although sometimes regular alphabet is used next to the national one. The 36 letters of the alphabet also have numerical value with 1-9, 10-90, 100-900 and 1,000-9,000 representing the 36 letters in alphabetical order.

edit

Safety

See also: Travel Safety

In terms of crime, Armenia is one of the safest places you can be. Assaults are very uncommon, though it does occur. Pickpockets operate at a couple of the most crowded tourist spots, so keep your wallet close at Vernissage and take your normal precautions. Any trouble should be reported to police, who you should also feel comfortable contacting if a taxi driver is insisting on an exorbitant price from you. Always agree to a price with them beforehand, but if you have not agreed to a price, that does not mean they can charge any number they choose and it is questionable whether you even owe them anything if they don't set a price.