We are thrilled to announce the appointment of David Wright, MD, FACEP, as Chair of the Department of Emergency Medicine. Dr. Wright has served as Interim Chair and has overseen significant progress in the Department of Emergency Medicine.

Drs Lekshmi Kumar and Michelle Lall were among newly promoted senior faculty at a breakfast hosted by the Emory Alliance for Women in Medicine and Science and the SOM Office of Faculty Academic Advancement, Leadership and Inclusion.

Resident Retreat October 2019

The 2019 Resident Retreat was a huge success. Fifty-seven residents attended the Toxicology-themed event, hosted by Melissa Gittinger, DO, Medical Toxicology Clerkship Director

EM faculty were honored in Lifetime Achievement, Distinguished Service, and five other award categories at the annual faculty recognition event.

Emergency Medicine Residents' Association at ACEP October 2019

Dr. Aadil Vora ran the Emergency Medicine Residents' Association (EMRA) CaseCon and the research track. Drs. Strickler, White, and Yaffee (we couldn’t find her for the picture) were judges.

Left to right, Drs. Jordi Fonts, Samantha Strickler, Aadil Vora, Melissa White, Olivia Zoph and Darius Watts.

Dr. Andy Pendley Named GCEP Medical Director of the Year October 2019

Andrew Pendley, MD, was named Georgia College of Emergency Physicians 2019 Medical Director of the Year. Dr. Pendley is an Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine and Emory University Hospital Emergency Medicine Medical Director. Congratulations, Dr. Pendley!

Dr Joseph Carpenter Leads Emory Arm of $500K Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration Grant September 2019

SAMHSA's two-year grant to the American College of Medical Toxicology aims to advance substance use disorder education within healthcare curricula. Eleven emergency medicine residency programs will participate. Josepth Carpenter, Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, will lead Emory's program.

Dr Bijal Shah Receives School of Medicine Dean's Teaching Award September 2019

The Dean's Teaching Award recognizes superior teaching of medical and allied health professions students. Meet 2019 awardee Bijal Shah, MD, Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine.

George Leach, MD, will be Woodruff Health Educators Academy Teaching Fellow September 2019

Congratulations to Emergency Medicine Assistant Professor Georgie Leach, MD, who was recently accepted into the inaugural 2020 class of the Woodruff Health Educators Academy Teaching Fellowship program. Meet Dr. Leach.

The WHEA Teaching Fellowshipis a 12-month program for health sciences educators who want to advance their teaching skills and offer quality instruction to their learners. Fellows receive a Certificate of Distinction in Teaching and have the opportunity to teach workshops, as core faculty, to future fellowship cohorts.

National Medical Association (NMA) 2019 recap September 2019

Emory Medicine from several departments, including Emergency Medicine, had an exceptional showing at the National Medical Association (NMA) annual convention and scientific assembly in Honolulu, Hawaii July 27-31, 2019.

International Toxicology Update from Ziad Kazzi, MD September 2019

Dr. Kazzi recently returned from his trip to the Republic of Georgia in August. In this article, Dr. Kazzi outlined what he learned and future initiatives.

FemInEM Idea Exchange 2019 Recap September 2019

The 2019 FemInEM Idea Exchange (FIX) was an incredible success! This year’s conference was held at the Grand Hyatt in New York City from September 15 -17, 2019. The Emory Department of Emergency Medicine was well represented, with 13 faculty members and one soon-to-be faculty member, Dr. Nicole Battaglioli, in attendance. The FIX conference differs from other conferences in that more sensitive, yet vital, topics that primarily impact women are discussed in a safe space.

Celebrating Arthur Yancey II, MD, MPH, an Emory legacy September 2019

After 26 years with the Department of Emergency Medicine, September 16 marked the retirement of Dr. Arthur Yancey II from his roles in EMS medical direction and active Emergency Medicine practice, as well as his position as Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine.

Fellows contributed to national publications on vaping September 2019

Emory Emergency Medicine fellows, Drs. Kiernan, Layer, Thomas, and Schier, contributed to two major publications in response to the current outbreak of Vaping-Associated Illness. Read full articles at bit.ly/2kEcSjJ and bit.ly/2lItfvY.

Why Emory fellow Michael Zdradzinski, MD, chose Emory September 2019

I chose the Emory EM Education Fellowship because of the incredible diversity of educational activities and opportunities in our department. We have opportunities in medical student, resident, and nurse practitioner education, simulation, faculty development, residency administration, and learner wellness.