After graduating from RADA in 1994, Cambridge law graduate Mangan did not pursue lead roles on-screen, preferring to take what he saw as the less limited opportunities on the stage. Between 1994 and 2000, he performed in plays by (among others) Shakespeare, Shaw, Coward, Benn and Goldsmith throughout the UK and the West End before joining world-renowned theatre company Cheek by Jowl for an international tour of Much Ado About Nothing, earning him a nomination for a National Theatre Ian Charleson Award.

He worked again for director Declan Donnellan at the Royal Shakespeare Company in School for Scandal, and at the Savoy Theatre, London in Hay Fever. In 2008 he played the title role in The Norman Conquests, directed by Matthew Warchus, at The Old Vic Theatre, London and then at the Circle in the Square on Broadway. The production earned several Tony Award nominations, including one for Mangan himself. In 2012 he appeared at the Royal Court, London (for the second time) in a Joe Penhall play, Birthday, directed by Roger Michell, playing a pregnant man. He also starred as Bertie Wooster in Perfect Nonsense at the Duke of York's Theatre alongside Matthew Macfadyen as Jeeves.

His breakthrough performance was Adrian Mole in the six-part TV show "Adrian Mole: The Cappuccino Years" (2001). In the same year he also appeared in "Sword of Honour" on Channel 4 alongside Daniel Craig. Since then he has worked extensively in British television as a lead actor in both serious drama and comedy. His most recent success is the British/American television comedy series "Episodes" created by David Crane and Jeffrey Klarik, starring Mangan alongside Matt Le Blanc and Tamsin Greig. It premiered on Showtime in the United States on January 9, 2011 and on BBC Two in the United Kingdom on January 10, 2011.

His first film part was as Doctor Crane in Billy Elliot. He went on to appear in many other films such Chunky Monkey, Birthday Girl, Festival and Beyong The Pole. His most recent film is as the voice of Postman Pat in "Postman Pat: The Movie" a British 3D computer-animated comedy film. He was host of the Evening Standard British Film Awards for 4 years (2009-2013) and will host the Olivier Awards in 2014. In April 2014, Mangan will return to host the British Academy Television Craft Awards in London for a third time. He is a well-known voiceover artist - voicing animation, commercials and documentaries.