KARACHI/ISLAMABAD: The Pakistan Supreme Court said on Wednesday former Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, hanged in 1979 following one of the country’s most controversial legal cases, did not get a fair trial, a verdict widely seen by the ex-premier’s family and political associates as a “correcting of history.”

Bhutto was hanged on April 4, 1979, in Rawalpindi District Jail, where he had been confined since his conviction on charges of conspiring to murder a political opponent. The charismatic, Western-educated leader who founded the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) served as the fourth president of Pakistan from 1971 to 1973, and later as the country’s ninth prime minister from 1973 to 1977. He was ousted in a military coup by General Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq on July 5, 1977, following an election in which Bhutto is widely charged with having rigged the vote.

Legal experts have for years questioned Bhutto’s trial both in the Lahore High Court and the Supreme Court, and raised questions on the conduct and procedure of the hearings, as well as on the fact that they took place while Pakistan was under military rule. Analysts argue this is the reason Bhutto’s death penalty judgment has never been cited as a precedent in any subsequent case in Pakistan’s judicial history.

“The proceedings of the trial by the Lahore High Court and of the appeal by the Supreme Court of Pakistan do not meet the requirements of the fundamental right to a fair trial and due process enshrined in Articles 4 and 9 of the constitution,” the chief justice said while announcing the unanimous opinion of the court under its advisory jurisdiction.

The guilty verdict against Bhutto is still considered one of the most controversial milestones in Pakistan’s history. His family and political supporters allege the judges came under pressure from Zia to sentence Bhutto to death.

Before his hanging, Bhutto was first declared guilty in 1978 by the Lahore High Court. His appeal in the Supreme Court was then dismissed with a 4-3 verdict.

The decision to hang Bhutto was made by General Zia despite a flood of petitions for executive clemency from dozens of world leaders, including US President Jimmy Carter, Russia’s Leonid I. Brezhnev, Chinese PM Hua Guofeng and Pope John Paul II, besides thousands of Bhutto’s Pakistani supporters.

Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari, Bhutto’s son-in-law, filed a presidential reference in 2011 to review the 44-year-old death sentence. Only six hearings were conducted, the last of them in November 2012. A nine-member larger bench of the Supreme Court began rehearing the reference last December.

Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif, in a statement following the verdict, said the top court had set “a new tradition” through its opinion.

“The unanimous opinion of the Supreme Court in the Bhutto reference will help understand history at the national level through the right perspective,” Sharif noted. “The process of national unity and development can be accelerated only by correcting the past mistakes and doing away with the bitterness.”

The Bhutto family described the apex court’s decision as “historic and bold,” saying it has helped address the family’s and the PPP’s reservations after over four decades.

“This historic and bold opinion of the Supreme Court has helped correct the history besides addressing reservations of the family and the party,” Zulfikar Ali Badar, PPP Chairman Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari’s spokesperson, told Arab News.

“The party leadership has welcomed the court’s opinion,” he said. “The party will announce a strategy on how to celebrate it after the court releases a detailed opinion on it.”

Badar noted the court acknowledged its “historic mistake” and tried to correct it through a legal opinion. “The opinion is unanimous of all nine judges in the bench that is significant in many ways,” he said.

Legal experts said that while the court gave an opinion on Bhutto’s trial and procedural conduct, it had stopped short of giving its view on whether the ex-premier was guilty or not.

“This is a legal opinion of the court which is obviously significant and historic, but the court has refrained from commenting on Bhutto’s involvement in the murder case,” advocate Usama Malik told Arab News.

“The court has, in fact, given an opinion against its own institution that should also be followed by other institutions to accept their past mistakes and correct the course.”

He said the opinion remains “symbolic” if the Supreme Court fails to look into other important legal cases pending before it for adjudication, referring to a slew of criminal cases against former prime minister Imran Khan who has been in jail since August last year.

Former attorney-general of Pakistan, advocate Ashtar Ausaf, said the court’s opinion was a “very significant” one as it had revisited a judgment that had been criticized all along.

“The conviction they say was a result of procedural impropriety and violated the right of Mr.Bhutto for a fair trial,” he told Arab News. “This is a sad indictment of the criminal justice system that was suffering even today.”

He urged the government to request political parties to sit together and approve legislation that gets rid of “archaic and redundant” laws.

“The Supreme Court opinion is a wake-up call for all to do an introspection themselves,” he said.

Salahuddin Ahmed, a legal expert and president of the Sindh High Court Bar Association, cautioned that the Supreme Court could only offer an advisory opinion in response to the presidential reference but not set aside the earlier verdict.

“It may, however, opine that the earlier verdict suffered on account of bias of one or more judges,” he explained. “If so, it will not automatically set aside the earlier verdict but it will certainly give judicial acknowledgment to the widespread public and historical opinion that the Bhutto trial and execution was flawed and orchestrated by General Zia, the then military dictator.”

“In my view, acknowledging and correcting the past judicial mistakes is important to correct the course going forward,” Ahmed added.

“The decision in the Bhutto murder trial cannot be reversed, but in Pakistan’s political history, it will be proven that at another time, Pakistan’s judiciary supported anti-democratic forces,” academic and historian Dr. Riaz Ahmed Sheikh told Arab News a day before the SC verdict in the case.

ISLAMABAD: Pakistan’s permanent ambassador to the United Nations on Wednesday called on the international community to join hands to conserve the South Asian country’s national animal Markhor, given the important role it plays in the overall ecosystem.

The Markhor is a large, wild goat with distinctive spiral horns found in the mountainous regions of Pakistan, India, Afghanistan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. They are usually found at heights of 8,000-11,000 feet, but during the winter months, descend to between 5,000-6,000 feet.

Markhors are hunted for sport in Pakistan’s mountainous Gilgit-Baltistan region, where its hunting license fee is one the highest in the world.

“Pakistan has urged the world community to espouse collaborative efforts for the conservation of the Markhor,” the state-run Associated Press of Pakistan (APP) said. Pakistan’s envoy to the UN, Munir Akram, said the animal holds special significance for Pakistan considering it is the country’s national animal.

Akram was speaking at a UN side event organized by the Tajikistan Mission to the UN. The event was held in collaboration with the UN Environment Programme and International Union for Conservation of Nature.

“Markhors offer a significant opportunity to bolster the economy, foster conservation efforts and promote sustainable tourism and economic growth,” Akram was quoted as saying by the APP.

He noted that while the population of Markhors was declining globally, in Pakistan the animal was increasing steadily due to the government’s proactive conservation programs and community engagement policies.

He said currently, there were somewhere between 3,500 to 5,000 markhors in Pakistan.

“In Pakistan’s experience, strengthening community governance structures and promoting local ownership over sustainable natural resource use is a crucial first step to building more capacity for wildlife management activities,” Akram said.

He pointed out that under Pakistan’s trophy hunting policy, local communities are trained to monitor and manage Markhor populations and trophy hunts independently. These communities retain 80 percent of the trophy permit fees, creating strong incentives for conservation, leading to significant livelihood improvements and community development projects, he said.

Akram noted that proceeds from the trophy hunts were also spent on enhancing Markhor breeding spaces and habitats.

KARACHI: Police in Pakistan’s eastern Punjab province on Wednesday arrested a man on charges of chopping off a donkey’s legs after it strayed into his employer’s land, highlighting the latest case of animal brutality in the country.

Animal abuse in Pakistan caught the spotlight last month when a local landlord in the southern Sanghar district was accused of chopping off a camel’s leg after it strayed into his fields for grazing. The story, which triggered uproar on mainstream and social media, led to the camel being transported to an animal shelter in Karachi for treatment. Six suspects were arrested by the police. In another incident in the southern Umerkot district last month, a camel was found dead with its legs amputated.

Bashir Ahmed, a resident of Punjab’s Muzaffargarh city, said his donkey suffered severe leg injuries after wandering onto the property of local landlord Khalil Jatoi on Monday. Local police arrested Sajjad Hussain, Jatoi’s employee, in connection with the crime.

“We have arrested Sajjad Hussain, who has been nominated in the case,” Muhammad Saleem, the investigating officer, told Arab News. “He will be produced before the court soon.”

Police filed a complaint against Hussain under Section 429 of the Pakistan Penal Code, which prescribes imprisonment of up to two years, or a fine or both, for anyone who “commits mischief by killing, poisoning, maiming, or rendering useless any animal or animals.”

However, Ahmed said the prime suspect was Jatoi, whom he said remains at large and was pressurizing him to drop the charges.

“While his employee Sajjad has been arrested, Khalil Jatoi has not yet been apprehended and he is threatening me to withdraw the case,” Ahmed alleged.

Ahmed said he used to sell fruits and vegetables on a cart that was pushed by the donkey.

Arab News could not independently verify whether Ahmed had received threats or not and Jatoi could not be reached for comment. The landlord has also not been nominated in the police complaint.

As per the complaint, Ahmed found the back legs of the donkey chopped off. The complaint also mentioned an eyewitness, Azfal Hussain, who informed police that Hussain had wounded the donkey.

Ahmed said the animal, which was undergoing medical treatment arranged by the provincial government, was the only source of his income for a family comprising five people.

“I’m hurt not only financially but emotionally as well since I’ve been caring for the donkey,” Ahmed added.

Pakistan’s existing animal cruelty laws, rooted in the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act of 1890, prohibit various forms of animal cruelty, including beating, overdriving, and mutilation. The legislation also prescribes penalties for breaches of these anti-cruelty provisions, which can include fines and imprisonment, though these are not always effectively enforced.

And despite the laws, officials themselves poison hundreds of dogs yearly in an effort to curb a population of strays that attack thousands of people.

PESHAWAR: The president of a 45-member committee leading a large sit-in protest in Pakistan’s northwestern Bannu on Wednesday called for a judicial inquiry to probe a shooting incident that killed at least two people in the city last week.

Thousands took part in a rally in Bannu last Friday to protest the government’s announcement to launch a new military operation against militants in the country. Participants of the rally demanded peace and an end to militancy in the country, which has killed thousands of people in Pakistan’s northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) province and displaced hundreds of thousands.

Tensions flared when at least two persons were killed and more than 20 injured after gunfire triggered a stampede at the rally, prompting thousands to stage a sit-in protest that continues to date.

Local residents and some Pakistani politicians accused security forces of shooting at the rally. Pakistan’s military spokesperson earlier this week rejected the allegations at a press conference, saying that “some negative elements” had joined the march and resorted to firing, pelting stones and chanting anti-state slogans.

“We demand a clear and transparent judicial inquiry through the Peshawar High Court into this incident,” Nasir Khan Bangash, president of the 45-member Bannu Aman Jirga and a senior member of the Bannu Chamber of Commerce, told Arab News.

He rejected the military spokesperson’s allegations that the government’s efforts to launch a new military operation, “Azm-e-Istehkam” or Resolve for Stability, was being politicized. Bangash said the rally’s main was to demand peace.

“The protest wasn’t political. Apart from white flags, there were no other flags [of other political parties] in the peace march,” Bangash said.

He said protesters wanted police to be empowered to deal with miscreants in the province, adding that they would not accept any military operations in KP.

Arab News reached out to the Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR), the military’s media wing, for its reaction to Bangash’s statement but did not get a response till this report was filed.

‘COMPREHENSIVE CAMPAIGN’

Past military operations have displaced hundreds of thousands of people and destroyed countless lives and livelihoods in Pakistan’s KP province, sparking a civil rights movement by ethnic Pashtuns.

The Pakistan army was able to effectively dismantle the Pakistani Taliban, or TTP, and kill most of its top leadership in a string of military operations from 2014 onwards in the country’s tribal areas, driving most of the fighters across the border into Afghanistan, where Islamabad says they have regrouped. Kabul denies this.

Islamabad says the new surge in violence is because Afghanistan’s Taliban rulers are not doing enough against militants using its soil to launch attacks on Pakistan. Kabul says rising violence in Pakistan is a domestic issue and it does not allow militants to operate on its soil.

Fears of more displacement have been raised after the government announced last month it would launch the Azm-e-Istehkam operation.

In his press conference this week, military spokesman Lt. Gen Ahmed Sharif Chaudhry clarified that the campaign was not meant to be a full-scale military operation.

“This is a comprehensive campaign against terrorism, which won’t just root out terrorism but which will lift up all of society,” he said.

ISLAMABAD: Lawmakers belonging to former prime minister Imran Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party on Wednesday continued their hunger strike to demand his release from prison, vowing to “take on” the government’s plan to ban the party.

Over two dozen PTI lawmakers, including the Leader of the Opposition in the National Assembly Omar Ayub, have been holding a hunger strike outside the Parliament House in Islamabad since Tuesday to press for Khan’s release from prison.

Khan has been in jail since August last year, even though all four convictions handed down to him ahead of a parliamentary election in February have either been suspended or overturned.

After being acquitted on the last of those four convictions, authorities rearrested Khan and his wife in an old corruption case on charges of selling state gifts unlawfully. He also faces an accusation of inciting his supporters to attack military installations in May last year. Khan denies all the accusations.

The hunger strike also takes place after Information Minister Ataullah Tarar announced on July 15 that the government plans to ban the PTI over the “proven” charge that the party received foreign funds from sources illegal in Pakistan, and because of rioting by its supporters last year that targeted military installations.

“I think that we have to just laugh it off,” Ayub told Arab News from the PTI’s hunger strike camp, reacting to the government’s announcement to ban the party.

He was sitting with other lawmakers of the party who held Khan’s portraits and placards inscribed with the words “Release Imran Khan.”

“They [the government] can’t beat us in the political arena, so they have resorted to this,” Ayub added. “We will take them on.”

The government’s announcement to ban the PTI came following the Supreme Court’s recent verdict in which it accepted the PTI as a legitimate political party and awarded it reserved seats for women and minorities in parliament. The verdict was a blow to the Shehbaz Sharif-led coalition government, causing it to lose its two-thirds majority in Pakistan’s parliament.

Ayub said the PTI had organized the hunger strike to not only demand Khan’s and his wife’s release from prison but also to protest against soaring inflation and militancy in the country.

“This hunger strike is geared toward or targeted toward getting Prime Minister Imran Khan, his wife and first lady Bushra Bibi and all our politically imprisoned prisoners who were imprisoned because of their political beliefs of supporting Prime Minister Imran Khan,” he said.

He described the government as an “illegal” one, holding it responsible for rising inflation and militancy in the country. Ayub called for fresh elections to overcome these crises.

“This is a token hunger strike, and we will continue this as long as is necessary,” he vowed.

‘DRAMA’

Meanwhile Senator Talal Chaudhry, a member of the ruling Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) party, described the PTI’s hunger strike as a “drama.”

He accused the PTI of always conspiring to weaken the country, saying that the party was always protesting whether through hunger strikes or “conspiracies to shut down Pakistan.”

“They will not get anything through these strikes,” he said. “What sort of a hunger strike is this that it begins after lunch and ends before the evening tea?“

The rise in tensions between the government and the PTI takes place after police raided the headquarters of Khan’s party in Islamabad earlier this week.

The PTI’s senior media manager Ahmed Waqas Janjua and its information secretary Raoof Hassan were arrested by authorities on accusations they were pushing an “anti-state narrative” to undermine Pakistan’s sovereignty.

“The recent crackdown is because the government has lost all, I would say, legitimacy in the eyes of the people,” Ayub said. “They don’t have anything to offer.”