View of the keep and walls of Vyborg castle by Sweden and held until captured by Peter I during the Great Northern War.

The remains of Vyborg Castle built by Sweden. It has been restored and repaired several times.

View of upper stories and keep from castle courtyard.

Close up of the main keep and adjacent hall from inside the castle and below the entrance to the keep.

View of the keep and adjacent hall from inside the castle.

Statue of Peter the Great on ridge just outside Vyborg from where he besieged the fortress during the Great Northern War. The statue was created by sculptor Bernstam in 1910 to celebrate the 200 years anniversary to Peter's capture of the city. Peter leans on a cannon, his siege weapon, while facing the castle.

The painting depicts the Russian artillery firing during the siege of Vyborg in the Great Northern War.

View of part of the fortifications built during the reign of Anna Ivanovna around Vyborg.

View of part of the ditch and rampart of fortifications of Vyborg commissioned by Empress Anna Ivanovna in early 18th century.

A part of the fortifications of Vyborg constructed during the reign of Anna Ivanovna.

A destroyed pillbox in the former Mannerheim line between St Petersburg and Vyborg.

Destroyed pillbox in the Mannerheim line

Entrance to a destroyed pill box in the former Mannerheim line between St Petersburg and Vyborg.

Entrance to a destroyed pillbox in the former Mannerheim line between St Petersburg and Vyborg

A destroyed pillbox in the former Mannerheim Line

Upper levels of the castle in Vyborg, Russia

View of keep of Vyborg Castle.

View of the castle keep from below the main section

Downtown in medieval Vyborg

Ruin of a part of the Mannerheim line fortifications

Part of a bastion wall in the Russian fortifications completed in trhe 1740's during the Reign of Anna Ivanova- the Annankron - The work is an excellent example of a 18th century bastioned fortress. It was designed by General de Colulomb.

Our tour group are exploring another ruined Mannerheim fortification

A ruined section of the Vyborg foritications completed in 1740's during reign of Anna Ivanova

A ruined section of the Vyborg foritications completed in 1740's during reign of Anna Ivanova

Our tour group are exploring another ruined Mannerheim fortification

Part of a bastion wall in the Russian fortifications completed in trhe 1740's during the Reign of Anna Ivanova- the Annankron - The work is an excellent example of a 18th century bastioned fortress. It was designed by General de Colulomb.

Ruin of a part of the Mannerheim line fortifications

View of part of the rampart ofthe fortification built during reign of Anna Ivanovna

Part of a bastion wall in the Russian fortifications completed in trhe 1740's during the Reign of Anna Ivanova- the Annankron - The work is an excellent example of a 18th century bastioned fortress. It was designed by General de Colulomb.