A panoramic pummeling of the pseudoscience that is paranormal investigation

“What do you think we do with all this equipment? Do you think we study electromagnetic fields for fun? This is what we do. We make the illogical logical. We find the reason in everything that reason can’t explain.”

Jacqueline E. Smith, Lost Souls, 2019

While a fictional character utters the above quote, a survey of the attitudes of most ghost hunters today shows a similar mindset.

In fact, popular real-life paranormal investigators Jason Hawes and Grant Wilson echo that viewpoint claiming they use “…scientific methods to determine whether or not someone’s home might be haunted.”(1)

However, according to Benjamin Radford, author and deputy editor of Skeptical Inquirer science magazine, the methods used on their long-running TV series Ghost Hunters, a show whose methodology is copied by a large number of amateur followers, are…

… both illogical and unscientific.

“The Ghost Hunters lacked good science to begin with, and their methods have not become any more scientific--or any more effective-- since they began,” he observes.(2)

Not surprising, proof that ghosts exist is no better today than it was 100 years ago. In fact, Radford adds, watch a paranormal investigation show or video and it’s often apparent that the “hunt” is more about having fun—and selling “merch”--than finding evidence.(3)

And if you’re an author, blogger, content creator, newsletter publisher, or science writer of material that debunks the existence of paranormal entities, there’s an extensive amount of info, data, and weaponry available to support your focus.

The stealth psychology that’ll unconsciously induce readers to accept your statements

The strategy for approaching these kinds of projects is based on five factors: Psychological ventriloquism, future pacing, FUD (fear, uncertainty, doubt), competition vaporization, and weaponized identity roles.

The tactical tools are Neuro-Linguistic Programming Language Patterns (NLP LPs) and Emotional Trigger Words.

Language patterns are sentences that bypass the conscious mind and cause your reader to accept your statements without question, says Lou Larsen, author and distinguished NLP-based copywriter.

They’re “…actually quite difficult to block or question…because they slip right in” past people’s mental filters, he explains.(4)

You can seamlessly seed these tantalizing templates into your content. Or, if you’re writing copy to sell a book, e-book, or special report, use them for headlines, subheads, leads, bullets, offers, call-to-actions, and so on.

In other words, anywhere you want to add more support and value. Just don’t overuse them or you’ll risk looking hypey.

And for added power, if I have a reference available for the info in a pattern, I use it. But references are rarely a necessity.

Emotional Trigger Words “…grab your reader’s attention, keep their eyes glued to the page … and then ultimately compel them to make a…decision,” notes direct response copywriter Tony Flores.(6)

And, of course, evoke the emotions you’re targeting.

Like adding bat wings to a witch’s brew, you can also mix in “Life-Force 8” (LF8) and “9 Secondary Wants” (9SW) elements.

Created by marketing consultant and trainer Drew Whitman, they’re advertising’s versions of psychologist Abraham Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs.(7)

The LF8 are the basic biologically programmed desires hard-wired into everyone. And the 9SWs are learned desires that exert an incredible amount of control over your reader’s thoughts.

Now--let’s start with this first intriguing strategy…

Focus your prospect’s mind in the direction you want

Picture having the power to…

…project ideas into your reader’s mind that compels them to accept your statements.

You see, there’s a secret persuasion technique called Psychological Ventriloquism created by Blaire Warren, veteran marketer and persuasion expert.(4) And it gives you the ability to cast your thoughts into your target’s heads and make them think those ideas are their own.

But my method using language templates and dominant emotions, I believe, is quicker and easier to apply, plus results in faster responses.

So first, do a deep-dive on your target audience. Then decide what you want them to feel and do. Because before you start using language patterns, you have to know what emotions to trigger, Larsen says.

Next, “You want to get your audience’s mind moving in a ‘certain direction’ without making them feel you are manipulating them,” Larsen says.(5)

Get your reader’s mind going in the right direction by using the language patterns. This can transform their thoughts into physical actions (such as buying your book, subscribing to your newsletter), Larsen says.(5)

To start, you can…

Catapult thoughts into your target’s mind with this tempting template

That “little voice in your head.

It’s likely persuaded you to do many things in the past.

But what if there was a pattern to control the little voice in your reader’s head? One that subtly pushes them to consider or do whatever you’re stating.

That’s what the following template can do.

“Did/Do you find that little voice in your head wondering, (PROBLEM)?”(5)

All you to do is tell or remind them about that little voice.

Of course you need in-depth knowledge of your audience here. A “No” to a Yes/No question pretty much ends your claim instantly.

Here’s an example:

Do you find that little voice in your head anxiously wondering, “Why did those ghost hunters only spend a few hours in my house searching for spooks?”

The book, Scientific Paranormal Investigations, the authoritative source on ghost hunting, maintains that reaching a conclusion on possible supernatural occurrences takes much more time than that.

(Uses every dominant emotion (DE) from anger and fear to shame and urgency; Almost every one of the LF8 from survival and enjoyment of life to freedom from fear and danger; 9SWs such as curiosity, efficiency, and the desire to be informed.)

Next, here’s how to…

Use gloom and doom to hook prospects

Positive messages out-pull material that zooms in on pain, problems, and powerlessness.(5)

So for content and copy, use positive language with a little negativity to persuade skeptical but hopeful readers. Also, show the frightening effects of not acting now.

Also, your message needs to grab attention and imagination quickly.(5)

Here’s a negative, stopping pattern that works quite well:

“Don’t wait/delay (to WHAT YOU WANT THEM TO DO). (SOMETHING NEGATIVE) isn’t (waiting).”(5)

You can create countless patterns for our writing specialties based on dominant emotions, and the Life-Force 8 and 9 Secondary Wants.

For instance:

If mysterious phenomena in your home—cold or hot spots, unexplained noises or shadows, lights turning on and off—is starting to concern, and terrify you…

Don’t wait. Your living nightmare won’t stop by itself. So for answers, get my new book, The Haunted Brain Theory Explained.

Ghost hunters rarely provide any specific findings. If they do, they’ll be sparse and inconclusive.

(DE—anger, fear, frustration, powerlessness; LF8—freedom from fear and danger, care and protection of loved ones; 9SW—to be informed)

Make prospects wary of other options

Since a full-frontal attack to persuade someone to your point of view almost never works, you’ll want to use an indirect strategy.

Our next pattern offers a clever way to undermine ghost hunting as a viable option. It transforms your solution into the smart, obvious choice.(5)

To apply it…

First, list all of the faults and negatives in whatever idea or group you’re opposing.

Next, study the advice given. Think of the bad effects that can result. How could someone who took that “guidance” be negatively affected?

Lastly, link a colorful comparison to one of the worse results.

Your template:

“(ACTION PROSPECT IS THINKING OF DOING) is about as useful/effective/smart as (SOMETHING SUPERSTITIOUS, USELESS, OLD-FASHIONED, or DANGEROUS).”(5)

If needed, you can add more info and data to flush out your pattern.

Here’s a terrific example …

Permitting ghost hunter hucksters to investigate unexplained occurrences in your home is about as smart and effective as asking your doctor for leech therapy to improve your vascular health.

Both responses can drastically backfire on you, and there are much better solutions available, such as…

(DE--especially anger, fear, powerlessness, and hope; LF8--survival…enjoyment of life…freedom from fear, pain, and danger, and care and protection of loved ones; 9SW--the desire to be informed and curiosity.)

Our next vital stratagem is to…

Foretell your prospect’s future & create more compelling content or copy…

"People go only to places they have already been in their minds.”(9)

(Part of the Seventh Law of Universal Advertising)

Language patterns that future-pace readers have the power to do exactly that.

These templates are structured to create a vision in their mind of how their life can change and how they can make better decisions, after they read your message.

That future can be bright—if they accept your writing, or bleak, if they don’t.

The advantages of future pacing are many, says Kim Krause Schwalm, master copywriter and copy mentor.

For starters, your material will be more persuasive, attract a wider audience, and keep eyeballs glued to your message, she notes.(10)

In addition, Impact Bias fuels future pacing. That means people tend to overestimate the length or the intensity of the impact of future feeling states, notes Jeremy Smith, serial entrepreneur, trainer, and conversion consultant.

They will then likely think that accepting your recommendations will positively improve their personal satisfaction and wellbeing way longer than it actually will, he adds.(11)

On the other hand, highlighting negative emotions will cause them to consider the harmful outcome of saying “No.”

But beware of these two problems that bedevil writers when future pacing

The two vexing challenges that you may face are…

1. Possessing a limited arsenal of future pacing words or phrases. You risk boring or annoying your reader if you rely on such tired wording as: Imagine if…, picture this…, suppose that…, envision the….

2. Confining the use of future pacing mainly to headlines, leads, and endings. Schwalm encourages writers to use future pacing throughout all of their communications.(10)

But with our subliminal sentences, you’ll…

End those obstacles while subtly influencing prospects

Most of the seven templates that follow work fine solo. However, you’ll want to add more info to many of them to flesh out your future scenario.

Let’s get started…

“You’re going to be X when you get/find out Y…”(14)

You’re going to be surprised and disappointed when you find out that the devices ghost hunters use to investigate your house—are rubbish. Belief that these gadgets actually work is based purely on wishful thinking, unproven theories, and wild conjectures.(3)

“I wonder what will happen eventually if you (don’t/do) what I want.”(14)

I wonder what will happen eventually if you don’t get my new book that reveals the truth behind the unexplainable events you’re going through. Because if you let “paranormal investigators” trample all over your property, you’re just launching yourself down a rabbit hole of frustration, disappointment, and ultimately, despair.

“Use statements about the future linked to statements that build excitement.”(4)

Now when you first receive “The Haunted Brain Theory Explained” and you start thumbing through it, you’ll feel relieved and excited…

…because you’ll know your solution will be based on real science instead of a bunch of gimmicks and gadgets that have proved to be worthless.

“What if you could (major promise)…without (usual negatives associated with major promise)?”(4)

What if you could watch a program that investigated paranormal activity without ghost hunters who believed their personal feelings were evidence of a haunting?

Ooh, “I felt like there is a presence here that wants to make contact with us.”

Such subjective experiences prove zilch.

“When you (skill/benefit from product) every other (things you could do elsewhere) you (verb that you’d perform) is (comparative benefit--easier, quicker, more profitable etc.). You’ll have a foundation…”(4)

When you learn the shady secrets of amateur ghost buffs, you’ll easily detect the trickery they pull on clients—and never get bamboozled by them yourself.

My new book “The Haunted Brain Theory Explained”….

“From the moment you (do what I want you to), you’ll (benefit) and (major promise)—you will become (something strongly positive).”(4)

From the moment you download my new e-book “The Science behind the Haunted Brain Theory,” the dark clouds of the living nightmare you’re enduring—

Will vanish like a phantom in a cemetery, and you’ll face your future knowing your haunting ordeal is about to end.

“If you (do/don’t what I want you to), this (positive/negative) will happen…. Then vividly describe future state.”(8)

If you don’t read my expose about how most paranormal events are huge scams, you could get ripped off like victims of the “A Haunting at Tombstone” hoax.

Here, ticket holders were cheated out up to $900 by flimflam artist….(15)

Crazy, huh? Anyway, consider this next approach. It attacks with emotional triggers from a fresh angle…

Sleep Paralysis Demons invoke fear, uncertainty & doubt to freeze their target’s attention…

Here’s how to use that same strategy to persuade readers

Can the nightmare-inducing emotions evoked by sleep paralysis demons stalking prey…

…be used by writers to convince their audience that their scientific explanations are the correct ones?

Certainly…

You see, the same part of the brain that triggers the dread, anxiety, and immobility created by “night-terror” demons during sleep paralysis…

…is the same one you can use to cause Fear, Uncertainty, and Doubt (FUD) in readers to persuade them to your viewpoint, buy your book, subscribe to your blog, and so on.

In short, the amygdala, or “lizard brain”—the emotional and threat center of your brain--rapidly realizes potential danger.(13)

This can occur during sleep paralysis, especially when The Old Hag, an alien, demon, or other creature appears to materialize in your room and menaces you with life-threatening injury.

A similar mental—and physical—response can happen when the FUD strategy is applied to content and copy.

Here’s why…

“People are more inclined to act if they are in pain or fear some kind of loss,” confirms Lou Larsen, a veteran Neuro-Linguistic Programming (NLP) copywriter.(4)

We’re wired for fear and negative emotions more than we are for positive ones, especially FUD, states Gary Hennerberg, copywriter/creative director and analytic consultant.(13)

Setting the hook: The stealth psychology behind using FUD

Using FUD alerts readers to the gloom and doom awaiting them if they don’t accept your ideas.

And just as sleep demons appear in different ways—alien, demon, old hag, dead relative, evil presence—so can this influential tactic.

Just apply it strategically.

Of course, adding FUD to your promo isn’t random.

Hennerberg prefers this psychological model to launch FUD-based attacks…

1. Trigger reader emotion according to the particular FUD you’ve identified.

2. Validate their reasons for experiencing one or more of these emotions and secure their trust.

3. Then quickly let them know how your solution will silence their sorrow.(13)

Igniting FUD for convincing, combustive content & copy

Here’s how to spark target FUD by applying the mind-molding might of our phenomenal phrasings.

These five stealth sentence structures with examples and explanations will help you launch prospects on their way to believing, buying, or subscribing.

HOWEVER, keep in mind that your reader may already be experiencing hair-raising, spine-tingling occurrences. So use these persuasion devices wisely.

First up…

“No matter how hard you try, you can’t (their outcome).”(16)

Your ability to feel empathy is vital here. You’ll see from your reader’s perspective more easily as well as understand their fears, uncertainties, and doubts.

Once you’ve made your audience aware of your empathy, comfort them with your material by pointing them in the right direction to avoid future pain.

By presupposing emotional pain, you gain rapport. Agitate that anguish then show how your solution is unique and will resolve their suffering.(16)

For example…

No matter how hard you try, you can’t escape the fact that no paranormal investigator in history has ever found a shred of evidence that ghosts exist.(3)

Our next LP balances the opposing motivators delight and distress…

“Would you rather (benefit), or would you rather (consequence).”(16)

Overly positive framed arguments sound too good to be true. Too negative ones can turn off readers.

That’s where this template comes in—it balances both aspects. And because it ends with the adverse effect, it takes advantage of the Recency Effect.

To create your version, determine the ultimate benefit of your product or service. Then figure out the consequences of not buying, not acting now, using a competitor, or the prospect doing it their self.

Added advantages of this pattern are: It gives people a choice and it’s framed as a question--making it more engaging and compelling.(8)

Would you rather have an amateur, part-time hobbyist flounder around studying the weird happenings in your home…

Or engage an expert in logic, forensics, psychology, critical thinking, and scientific investigation to take charge?

Onward…

FUDs that apply “moving away motivation” are convincing. Of course too much of this strategy can backfire.

But the right amount can propel your prospect over their tipping point.

The following pattern presupposes peril to your target’s present situation, and their future.

“How safe/secure is/are your (something your prospect cares about that your product/service can help with).”(17)

Ask…

What are my prospect’s FUDs as they relate to my argument? Will their internal experience motivate them to accept it—ending the threat your reader’s facing?(17)

Like this…

How secure is your knowledge about the difference between primitive superstitions and proven scientific methods?

The former has you fearing phantoms, and the latter, as presented in my new book, will act like a search light illuminating the darkness facing you.

Next, a fast way to emotionally excite your targets.

It’s the LP…

“How (emotion) are you about (their situation)”(17)

This presupposes the emotion a reader is experiencing. The gloomy feelings it generates aims to lead an individual in the direction you want.(17)

For instance…

How frightened are you about the bizarre phenomena—loud, unexplained noises; objects changing positions overnight; family members reporting feeling the presence of invisible entities—occurring in your home?

As the heart-pounding urgency of your fears increase, you need real answers fast. And you certainly won’t get that from amateur ghost hunters.

(Then present your solution).

The following hypnotic pattern subtly influences by combining both moving-away (from fear and pain) and moving toward (to gain and pleasure) motivation.(17)

“You now have a choice: (negative old way with wasted time/consequences of using competition) or (ease, speed, pleasure with your product or service).”(17)

And for our purposes…

You now have a choice: Waste your time dealing with ghost hunter fumblers not trained in scientific investigation methods.

Or, you can discover the truth behind what you’re experiencing from the deputy editor of Skeptical Inquirer magazine Benjamin Radford. Radford has authored over 20 books and 1000s of articles on science-based paranormal investigations.

After moving on to our next angle, you’ll find it a bit more blunt...

Stealth vaporize your competition…with more demon-clever verbal voodoo

Ignoring your competition is like ignoring a big booger hanging from your nose…

Your reader is going to wonder why you’re not dealing with rival groups or ideas. And someone talking to you is going to wonder why you’re not dealing with that booger.

Now most of us know that bashing your competition can backfire. So instead, we often ignore or insinuate something negative about them.

In fact, I do the latter on my website.

For instance, on my home page I address competition like this:

“Oh yes, let’s not forget your other option. Trusting your project to a newbie freelancer. Let’s just say that decision could be hazardous to the health of your company’s finances--and reputation.”

Yes, overall, this statement may be true. But what I’m doing is kind of obvious, and savvy readers will take it with a grain of salt.

So if you want more lethal linguistics that’ll cast doubt on competing articles, books, blogs, and, especially, the con games of most ghost hunters…

Read on to find out to how to--

Mind-debug readers about opposing viewpoints

Language Patterns work so well because they’re subtle.

For example, the following sentence presupposes something about my rivals.

“What kind of incompetent fools are my competitors?”

But it’s certainly not subtle.

So notice the subtlety involved as you continue through these examples.

As before, many of these templates will work just by themselves—say as headlines, subheads, subject lines, call-outs, and so on. However, you’ll want to add supporting info when needed.

Now check out the subliminal but persuasive power of the following. For separating your material from rivals they’re hard to beat.

First…

“For now, I want you to forget competition, their goods or services. They/They’re negative connotation phrase .”(18)

Dismissing your rivals like this basically causes them to vanish from your prospect’s mind, Larsen explains.

And, “…negative connotations are ideal for making your competition take the back seat,” he says.(18)

Example:

For now, I want you to forget about paranormal investigation commercials you’ve seen on TV or Youtube. The amateurs on these ads are notorious for misleading clients, misusing their equipment, and mishandling, misunderstanding, and misrepresenting their findings.

Then there’s…

“Unlike other/most of/its (competitor/product/service), your (product/service) doesn’t/won’t/isn’t (complaints about your rivals).”(4)

Sample of its use:

Unlike most commercial ghost hunters, proponents of the Haunted Brain Theory attribute a variety of supernatural occurrences to sleep paralysis, electromagnetic fields, and temporal lobe manipulation. (19)

Followed by…

“Would you really trust your something vital to prospect to a nullifying label/neutral noun?” (8)

In action:

Would you really trust your family’s safety and wellbeing to a bunch of untrained dabblers who don’t even know how to use their ghost hunting equipment properly?

Your competition will easily fall prey to this one, Larsen says. Your use of the negative connotation label infers that you’re the positive choice.(8)

With this next pattern, you’ll differentiate your message even more…

“Name of your product/service: (Intensifier—far, way, so much) (comparative) than (just) type of industry or negative about your market.”(5)

Example:

The Haunted Brain Theory: The ONLY scientific answer to paranormal events ranging from ghostly appearances to poltergeist activity to shadow people.

Larsen calls our next template…

“A quick and dirty way to plant objections in your prospect’s mind about your competition while at the same time you come out smelling like a rose.”(5)

This one’s especially handy when you suspect your rivals are hiding something, he says.(5)

“When you (something they’re thinking about doing), do you want/need (something negative)? Or do you (want something positive/what they want)?”(5)

Sample:

When you deal with ghost hunters, do you have the patience to constantly cope with their claims that all unexplained happenings in your home—are caused by sprits of the dead?

“Uh oh, this area is colder than the others—ghosts; my EFM meter detects a field—ghosts; where did that mysterious noise come from? Ghosts.” (3)

Or, do you want to quickly get all the information you need to figure out the source or sources of the baffling events vexing you? If so, set your mind at ease by ordering…”

This template works at the nonconscious level so it creates doubt in your prospect’s mind if they’re still researching, Larsen added.(5)

And lastly, discover how to…

“Weaponize” your reader’s identity to ghost-puppet their self-image

Questioning the identity of perusers is the pinnacle of persuasion, Larsen preaches.

“If you are having difficulty persuading people…, or convincing a person of something, you should make an appeal to their identity,” he says.(16)

“Identifications” as they are termed by legendary master copywriter Eugene M. Schwartz, are the roles “your prospect wants to play in life, and the personality traits he wants your product (or here, info) to help him build, or project.”

The beliefs, feelings, and desires (BFDs) of your audience represent their self-image. Tapping into those BFDs are an ideal way to influence people, Schwartz notes.

So you’ll want to channel attention, and trigger and expand on the BFDs of readers with this persuasion angle.(20)

The roles people play

To paraphrase Schwartz, people want commentary and advice to perform two roles.

There are Character Roles that describe personality.

And Achievement Roles developed by society such as status, class, and position.

Applying Identification in your material is fairly simple.

1. Identify which roles your reader will identify with in your message.

2. Present that role “…vividly and so intensely” it will be accepted or rejected—depending on your agenda.

So let’s examine some examples with explanations of each.

Character Roles

Here’s the first frame:

Simple, easy to apply, but quite effective.

“I can tell you're a person who (IDENTITY) because (REASON WHY).”(16)

Example:

I can tell you’re a reasonable, intelligent person. How? Because you’re still reading about my new e-book that reveals why ghost hunting shows are so transparently fake.”

If you’re familiar with marketing copy, you’re aware that providing a “reason why” packs a potent punch. It’s “… a very powerful way to persuade people...even if the reason why doesn’t really make much sense,” Larsen adds.

Use this next template early in your copy or content, because it can loosen up your target.(16)

And, you can come up with plenty of variations of this pattern.

“I know you (IDENTITY) because (REASON WHY).”(16)

I know you’re sharp person because you’ve subscribed to blog which exposes the scams many paranormal investigators run on their victims.

Modified here, this NLP sentence not only appeals to identity, it also makes reader’s part of a desired group--another splendid persuasion tactic. Even better, like the template it’s based on, it includes the word “because.”A word we’re hardwired to respond to.(16)

Knowing who your readers think they are and how they think of themselves is vital to our next template. And attaching your message to that identity is a commanding way to influence somebody.(5)

“For (TYPE OF PERSON) only.”(5)

This individual has to be the kind your audience sees themselves as. Or, would like to.

The pattern works as a subheading or can be dropped into body copy directly.(5)

Example:

For rational minds only.

Longer example:

For responsible but alarmed homeowners aching for logical answers to the bizarre and frightening events disrupting their family’s lives.

Achievement Roles

ALERT: The following pattern requires that you have solid rapport with your audience. Use it wrong and you might insult even alienate them.

“But use it correctly, and it will sink into your readers' minds subliminally, making them keen to act,” Larsen comments.(17)

“Are you [A HIGHER IDEAL OF THEIR IDENTITY] or just another [LOWER, MORE DEROGATORY FORM OF THEIR IDENTITY]?”(17)

Are you a sane, critical thinker or a crude troglodyte who mindlessly thinks every weird happening in your home has ghostly origins?

You can also future pace this pattern with this beginning: “Do you want to be…?”

Do you want to be respected as a capable, responsible parent or a naïve, backward oaf who goes bonkers when one of your kids claims they saw their dead grandma?

For both, just ask, what are the two extremes--the most positive and the most negative? How do your readers see themselves? How would they like to? Integrate answers into the frame.(17)

Our last pattern can trigger either the positive or negative results your reader wants.

“Every successful/intelligent (TYPE OF PERSON THAT FITS PROSPECT'S DESCRIPTION) knows/realizes that (THE RESULT OF WHAT YOU WANT THEM TO DO).”(4)

Example:

Every alert TV or YouTube video viewer knows that if murdered ghosts sought justice, they’d head toward the nearest police station—not some old, decrepit mansion.

With that final pattern, you’ve undoubtedly concluded that…

Murky methods and scanty schooling plague the paranormal investigation field

Writers in the paranormal market now have a trance-inducing trove of tactical templates to mesmerize and influence readers.

Most ghost hunters believe that viewers and others swallow their improper investigations without question—

But you can subtly—or not—challenge their unscientific claims with these darkness-illuminating language patterns.

After all, if so-called professionals can’t scare up something they’ve searched centuries for, most likely it’s their shady science that’s to blame.

References:

1. Ghost Hunting: True Stories of Unexplained Phenomena from The Atlantic Paranormal Society,Jason Hawes and Grant Wilson, 2007

2. Ghost-Hunting Mistakes, Skeptical Inquirer, Nov./Dec. 2010

3. https://www.livescience.com/4261-shady-science-ghost-hunting.html

4. NLP Language Patterns for Advertising, Lou Larsen, 2006

5. NLP Language Patterns for Advertising Blog E-book, Lou Larsen

6. Emotional Trigger Words, Tony Flores, AWAI, 2013

7. Cashvertising, Drew Whitman, 2009

8. Extreme Language Patterns, Lou Larsen, 2011

9. The Wizard of Ads, Roy H. Williams, 1998

10. 2018 The Complete Collection Copy Insiders Ebook, Kim Krause Schwalm

11. https://www.neurosciencemarketing.com/blog/articles/cognitive-biases-cro.htm

12. https://www.hennerberg.com/reinventing-direct-blog/amygdala-fear-uncertainty-doubt-in-copywriting

13. https://www.entrepreneurship.org/articles/2000/10/the-fud-factor-how-to-persuade-customers-to-buy

14. NLP Copywriting Course, Chris Marlow/Clive Cable, 2013

15. https://thetombstonenews.com/paranormal-event-proves-to-be-major-scam-p4583-1.htm

16. Hypnotic Language Patterns for Advertising Vol. 2, Lou Larsen

17. Hypnotic Language Patterns for Advertising, Lou Larsen

18. Selling Modalities, Lou Larsen

19. https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/haunted-brain-theory-unveils-mysteries-supernatural-dale-l-sims/?published=t

20. Breakthrough Advertising, Eugene Schwartz, 1966

If you enjoyed this article, you’ll certainly like this earlier one:

https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/haunted-brain-theory-unveils-mysteries-supernatural-dale-l-sims/?published=t

Dale L. Sims is a stealth sales strategist based in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Also, from May 2010 to Jan. 2014, he served as marketing coordinator and health consultant for Healthy Design, a supplement and fitness product distributor in Cadillac, Michigan.

Plus, Sims, creator of the Subliminal Hit Piece, is a former reporter, editor, and radio advertising salesman.