Chip Neville - Music

Clearly this guy loves guitars.

Chip Neville - Guitarist, Composer, Producer

My creative approach to music similar to my approach to visual art. Because I have a large and diverse set of traditional, electronic and digital skills, I am able to choose musical medium to suit application. I vascillate between traditional and experimental forms. Whether the application is recording performance or film , I am able to accomodate a variety of traditional or electronic approaches.

New Original Music

Chip Neville - Flatlander: Songs From the Wild Of Florida

Flatlander: Songs From The Wild Of Florida, is a bluesy, folksy, rockin, lowland boil of humor and call to action. It is a set of stories in song to be played around campfires, hearths and taverns. This album of Americana style blues folk and rock was released in early 2024 to streaming platforms. Availability on CD and Vinyl to follow.

Hear More About Flatlander!

Studio recording equipment and guitar setups while recording Flatlander.

More Music

Echo Pulse - Classic to contemporary Rock cover band

Some guys play poker on saturday night, we play Jimi Hendrix. Echo Pulse is a classic rock cover band. The members have been several over the years with Chip Neville on guitar & vocals, Bill Scholletlein sitting in on guitar and vocals, Now Steve Searles but formerly Jay Dubroc on Bass, and gracious host Wayne Searles on Drums. Echo Pulse playes diverse sets of classic to contemporary rock music by artists like, the Black Keys, Jimi Hendrix, the Rolling Stones, Kings of Leon, and the Talking Heads.

Echo Pulse logo,rehersing

Echo Pulse videos; Jimi Hendrix - Manic Depression, Talking Heads- Psycho Killer.

Experimental Music

Dream Marina - Experimental Noise

Dream Marina is an aleatoric noise band. It is the Brain child of dynamic duo Chip Neville on Guitar and Greg LeSar on synthesizer. The band explores narrative improvisations with heavy emphasis on electronic processing for thematic effect. The direction is always exploratory and uses electronics for dynamic effect. Dream Marina most recently played in benefit for WSLR community radio in Sarasota.

Dream Marina logo, a still image from Growlers Pub in Sarasota

Dream Marina video from WSLR - LPFM radio benefit at Growlers Pub in Sarasota.

Digital Audio

I spend a lot of time loop editing and composing digital music. I have been the main digital audio Instructor for several colleges in my work history. I consider myself fortunate to have not only the ability but the accredidation to teach visual subjects,and audio and music. My use of digital audio centers around animation and film, recording and composing.

This composition was inspired by old stressed cassette tape.

Educator

I have made my primary income as a college instructor for Almost twenty years. I have experience teaching all ages from primary through post secondary. I can confrortably convey complex information effectively to a variety of age groups and academic levels. My specialties are applied guitar, bass, music theory, digital audio, image manipulation, illustration, digital paint, digital video, digital visual FX, traditional and digital animation, and art foundations.

More About Ed Guitar/Bass Lessons