Long-time fans of Toto and the prolific output of its band members may recognize the groove in this aggressive rock song as being somewhat familiar.

What comes across as a fast-paced concert opener (see Live in Poland: 35th Anniversary from 2014 and Live at Montreux 1991 from 2016) is actually the evolution of an instrumental recording for synthesizers and percussion issued by Sheffield Lab in 1983.

James Newton Howard and Friends featured Howard, David Paich and Steve Porcaro as a keyboard triumvirate, and was intended to highlight the sonic impact and pristine digital sounds of Yamaha synthesizers. They were accompanied by Jeff Porcaro on drums, and his father Joe on percussion.

Amazing musicianship was required. Renowned for their audiophile offerings, Sheffield Lab conducted direct-to-disc sessions where albums were recorded one side at a time in one take – so the performance had to be perfect for each song.

The second track on Side B of the album was “E Minor Shuffle,” and this is the origin of “On the Run.” According to the Paich, it was such a fun riff to play that Jeff wanted to add it to the Toto repertoire so he asked the band to write a verse and chorus. Steve Lukather and Paich took over, with Fee Waybill contributing lyrics.

The version found on 1998’s Toto XX, a live performance from 1991, kicks off with a compelling riff full of energy, capturing Toto at their most dynamic. Chris Trujillo’s percussion is a prominent addition and brings a frenetic urgency which lifts the track to another level.

Steve Lukather’s vocals are confident and well suited to the heavy-rock riff, and his guitar solo comes across as unadulterated joy: It’s clear that he feels the freedom to go for it – and why not? The band interplay highlights how effortlessly these guys could groove, rock, improvise, and lock-in with each other in live situations.

Speaking of which, sadly this was to be the last tour with Jeff Porcaro. For fans of this era, be sure to check out Live at Montreux 1991, as it is the same show and is the only documentation of Toto during their four-piece period prior to Kingdom of Desire.

Interestingly, “On the Run” was intended to be part of that 1992 album. “We tried to cut it, but we just didn’t get a take we liked and so we discarded it. It happens sometimes,” Lukather later told Toto99.com. David Paich concurred: “It’s one of those tunes that feels better live for some reason than in the studio.”

While “On the Run” could have sat well with the rest of Kingdom of Desire, the quality of this live performance alone suggests they made the right decision.

Toto Tuesdays is a song-by-song feature that explores the band’s rich musical history. They returned with three new songs on 2018’s ’40 Trips Around the Sun.’