James Dean's claim to fame. It was one of the first films to tackle the subject of kids challenging their parents through rebellion that was not associated with the wholesome family dynamic. Its subject matter wasn't depicted widely on screen. Dean's Jim Stark is a bad boy who also exerts a level of coolness for which guys wanted to be him, and girls wanted to be with him.

A true classic by the late legendary director Mike Nichols. Benjamin (Dustin Hoffman), directionless in his early 20s, is seduced by an older woman — the famed Mrs. Robinson (Anne Bancroft). He also happens to be in love with her daughter (Katharine Ross). It's 1960s camp at its finest and filled with all sorts of symbolism. Not to mention, the Simon & Garfunkel-fueled soundtrack is quite appropriate.

Lives intertwine on this California night. Cruising the streets, hanging out, and looking for a thrill before embarking on the next chapter of life. The movie follows Steve (Ron Howard), Laurie (Cindy Williams), and Curt (Richard Dreyfuss). Before exploding with the Star Wars and Indiana Jones franchises, this was George Lucas' most respected work, which might still be his most genuine and personal.

This story of four friends looking for direction and finding it during a famed collegiate bicycle race is pure joy. We can't forget the memorable performances from Dennis Christopher, Dennis Quaid, and Paul Dooley. Breaking Away also introduced film lovers to the majesty of Bloomington, Ind., and prompted them to buy their own white "CUTTERS" T-shirts.

Quite an underrated made-for-TV film directed by Ron Howard. This movie is about George Smalley (Charles Martin Smith, who also starred in American Graffiti) and a group of his fellow outcast high schoolers looking for a purpose in their lives. They collectively find it by starting an underdog pop rock band poised to take down the super-popular Rapid Fire.

Samantha Baker (Molly Ringwald) hopes for a special sweet 16 birthday. Freshman "Farmer" Ted (Anthony Michael Hall) aims to get lucky at a high school dance, and "big man on campus" Jake Ryan (Michael Schoeffling) just wants a normal life and a normal girlfriend. Throughout roughly 36 hours, their lives intertwine in this classic John Hughes comedy.

An athlete (Emilio Estevez), princess (Molly Ringwald), brain (Anthony Michael Hall), basket case (Ally Sheedy), and criminal (Judd Nelson) come together for Saturday detention at Shermer High School. At the beginning of the day, they have nothing in common. By the end, their lives have changed. Another memorable and beloved John Hughes that will always remain relevant.

Up until his senior year of high school, prep wrestler Louden Swain (Matthew Modine) really hadn't done anything meaningful in his life. Now 18 years old, he's poised to take down the best wrestler in the state of Washington while also trying to deal with falling for an older woman (Linda Fiorentino), who conveniently enters his life. The film boasts one of the best soundtracks of the 1980s.

Lloyd Dobler (John Cusack) is a recent high school graduate with a good heart but one who hasn't given real thought to what comes next. He knows he wants to spend time with the intelligent and beautiful Diane Corte (Ione Skye). Lloyd has been considered a great non-sports underdog in film history (though he dabbles in kickboxing). His boom-box-over-head scene is one of the most memorable of all time.

Teenager Charlotte (Winona Ryder) is somewhat maladjusted, devotedly Catholic, and certainly embarrassed by her eccentric and free-spirited mother (Cher). Constantly moving, along with her water-obsessed sister Kate (Christina Ricci), some questionable impure thoughts and feelings overcome Charlotte in her new Massachusetts town, especially when she comes across local guy Joe (Michael Schoeffling).

The late John Singleton's celebrated directorial debut is a gripping tale of life in South Central Los Angeles. Cuba Gooding Jr., Morris Chestnut, and Ice Cube all give notable performances as high schoolers looking to find some normalcy while trying to survive the violent streets of their gang-infested neighborhood.

This won't be the last we hear from director Richard Linklater. It's May 28, 1976, the last day of school. Freshmen like Mitch Kramer (Wiley Wiggins) and his buddies are looking to avoid getting "busted" by seniors such as Randall "Pink" Floyd (Jason London), who are looking for a good time. Over the day and night, numerous characters amid the ensemble cast learn a little about themselves.

More Winona Ryder. This time, she stars alongside Kirsten Dunst and Claire Danes in this film version of Louisa May Alcott's classic coming-of-age novel. There have been several movie versions and adaptations of the book, but this one stands out. Perhaps because of the star power, or it did the story justice better than any others.

This might be the quintessential Gen X film of the 1990s. Recent college graduates are ready to strike out in the real world, only to find that freedom comes with a certain level of discipline and responsibility. However, as long as daddy is paying your gas card and those HIV tests keep coming back negative, things seem OK for Lelaina (Winona Ryder) and Co. It's also the movie that showed "My Sharona" is easy to dance along to with friends in a gas station convenience store.

Max Fischer (Jason Schwartzman) is not your average high school student. He's active in many school clubs, a budding screenwriter, and poised to win the woman of his heart — even while vying against his rich, adult friend Herman (Bill Murray). However, Max needs to mature, and the hilarious growing pains are more severe than he'd like to admit.

Cameron Crowe's semi-autobiographical tale about a teenager (Patrick Fugit) writing for Rolling Stone while on tour with popular rock band Stillwater. Young William learns plenty about life and the world of rock and roll. On the flip side, those around him, specifically band groupie Penny Lane (Kate Hudson) and rocker Russell Hammond (Billy Crudup), gain a little something from the lad.

If there's anything we take away from Evan (Michael Cera) and Seth (Jonah Hill), it's OK for male friends, even high schoolers, to express how much their friendship means to the other. It's even OK to say they love each other, and not in that raunchy way the boys like to talk (well, mostly Seth) throughout an adventurous and revealing evening before graduation.

Juno MacGuff (Elliot Page) is a slick-talking, wise-cracking pistol of an indie high school girl who doesn't fit into the confines of normality. When she becomes pregnant, Juno becomes even more of an outcast. Yet, she soldiers on while navigating a tricky situation. Along with friends and new acquaintances that come into her life, Juno learns about what is best or what they want in life.

In one of the most ambitious film projects ever conceived and executed, director Richard Linklater chronicles the life of Mason Evans Jr. (Ellar Coltrane), growing up in Texas from age 6 to 18. Also starring Patricia Arquette (who won the Best Supporting Actress Oscar for her role as Mason's mom) and Ethan Hawke, the project took 12 years to complete and was nominated for six Academy Awards.

Hailee Steinfeld does a nice in the lead role as high school outcast Nadine, who seems fine not wanting to fit in or conform to teenage norms. Nadine endures everything from selfishness to naïveté to jealousy, which makes for a genuine and honest picture. Woody Harrelson also shines as her high school teacher and confidant.

One of the most acclaimed films of the last decade, Lady Bird won the Golden Globe for Best Picture (Musical or Comedy). Star Saoirse Ronan, as Christine "Lady Bird" McPherson, was also awarded a Golden Globe for her starring role as a Catholic school girl trying to deal with young love, a complex relationship with her mother (Laurie Metcalf), and the need to possibly reinvent herself.

Inspired by journalist Sarfraz Manzoor, a Pakistani from England who fell in love with the music of Bruce Springsteen. In the movie, Javed (Viveik Kalra) is looking for a bit of freedom from his strict father and the chains of popular music in the 1980s. Thanks to the music of The Boss, Javed becomes a more confident individual, especially through his writing, which takes him to heights he never imagined possible.

This is Olivia Wilde's directorial debut, and it's a good one. On the eve of graduation from high school, Molly (Beanie Feldstein) and Amy (Kaitlyn Dever) are looking to blow off some steam like they never have before. Of course, the night goes nowhere near as expected, and their longtime friendship is challenged. Dever, best known for her time on Tim Allen's Last Man Standing, is the true star of this film.

Despite being released during the coronavirus pandemic, the film enjoyed rave reviews via Netflix and could go down as one of the best during this unique 2020 campaign. Ellie Chu (Leah Lewis) is a smart, talented, and introverted high school student living with her widowed father. She's also caught amid a sophomoric human box of affection through her series of beautifully written love letters.