Janine Archer (JA) led the writing of the protocol and the review, assessed studies for inclusion, conducted content and quality data extraction and 'Risk of bias' assessments.

Peter Bower (PB) supervised and co‐wrote each draft of the protocol and review and led the outcome data extraction, analyses and write‐up of results.

Simon Gilbody (SG) supervised and commented on each draft of the protocol and review, provided consultation for queries where study inclusion was unclear and was consulted on analytical procedures.

David Richards (DR) commented on each draft of the protocol and review, provided consultation for queries where study inclusion was unclear, conducted content and quality data extraction and 'Risk of bias' assessments.

Linda Gask (LG) commented on each draft of the protocol and review and conducted content data extraction.

Karina Lovell (KL) commented on each draft of the protocol and review and conducted content data extraction.

Peter Coventry (PC) commented on each draft of the review and conducted quality data extraction and 'Risk of bias' assessments.

Chris Dickens (CD) commented on each draft of the review and conducted quality data extraction and 'Risk of bias' assessments.

The reviewers would like to thank the editorial team of the Cochrane Collaboration Depression, Anxiety and Neurosis Group for its advice and support.

The review was supported by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Cochrane Review Incentive Scheme 2012.

The reviewers would also like to thank: Jasmine Knopp, Chris Keyworth, Dr Charlotte Garrett, Dr Cassandra Kenning, Angee Khara, Jacqueline Hill, Dr Chris Gibbons and Sarah Tully for their support with the data extraction.

Thank you also to the study authors who have responded to queries and requests for further information.

Peter Coventry (PC) is funded by the NIHR Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care for Greater Manchester. Peter Bower (PB) acknowledges the support of the NIHR School for Primary Care Research. The views expressed in this article are those of the authors and not necessarily those of the NIHR.

The methods for this review are based on the revised protocol published online in 2012 (Archer 2007), which is an update of the original protocol to take into account the most recent version of the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions available to authors (Higgins 2011a).

In the protocol we intended to report on social function outcomes. However, a very wide variety of social outcome measures were reported, and there was a lack of clarity over their definition, scope, and comparability. It was therefore not possible to produce a rigorous synthesis in the time frame of the review. We have extracted social function outcomes and may report them in a later update of the review.

We had planned to undertake a series of exploratory analyses to examine the influence of various factors outlined in the Subgroup analysis and investigation of heterogeneity section and other individual study‐level factors in predicting the magnitude and direction of outcomes. We had also planned to assess the significance of predictive factors (selected a priori and outlined above) in explaining between‐study heterogeneity, as measured by the I² statistic, according to the method proposed in Higgins 2004. However, as detailed in Potential biases in the review process, we were unable to undertake these further exploratory analyses due to time constraints, but we envisage incorporating them in the next review update.