Ôs

Krea Movo company/

Lucie Carmen Grégoire

At the Theatre Centre

in Toronto on Thursday

First let me say that I didn't want Lucie Carmen Grégoire's Ôs to be over.

Secondly, I wanted to be up there dancing in it (although that would have been a sight to behold).

Grégoire is a Montreal original. Her Krea Movo company premiered her whimsical new work Ôs in Toronto, and it flies against Montreal convention. Rather than embracing the heavily laden, symbolic, pro-European aesthetic like many of her city's choreographers, Grégoire defiantly walks her own pathway. One member of the audience called it magical, and he is right on.

Ôs is a word from Ancient Greece that means "in the manner of." Grégoire interprets the word to describe people bearing a positive outlook. She sees those who have a focused, spiritual centre can, in turn, enrich their encounters and relationships with others. Those who have this light find community spirit, mutual support, group pleasure and individual uniqueness.

Grégoire calls Ôs a dance and rhythmic quartet. The wonderful African-inspired score includes gentle percussion and vocalise, composed by Gotta Lago, who was born in Ivory Coast (with additional music by Kathy Kennedy). The singing is partly recorded and partly performed live by the four dancers who are wired for sound. The lyrics are nonsense words, interpolated by humming, quirky sound effects, breathing and wind and water sounds. The vocalise is like the abstract singing that we do privately when we are on our own.

The physical part of Ôs resembles the music. It is made up of loose and easy movement layered with rhythmic body and floor slaps (including hitting each other), hand clapping, finger snaps and the like. The infectious rhythms seem to flow like liquid from one dancer to the next. If rhythm were a visible commodity, we would see it as bobbing lines joining the dancers together or jumping merrily from one body to the next. The connection between the dancers is part of Ôs captivating charm.

The set is made up of one large floor square defined by a wooden frame. The space within is littered with dried leaves (apparently acquired from various Montreal parks). These leaves add to the sound score because they rustle when the body touches them. The longer leaves (from the botanical gardens) are used like percussion. As they shake, they make a distinctive crackle noise. Stéphane Ménigot's lighting includes overhead lamps enclosed in thin, bamboo frames, which carries on the rustic theme of the ground design.

Nothing about Ôs is in a hurry. Nothing jars. Nothing frustrates. Nothing interrupts the sense of play. When the audience enters, Élissar Hanna, Élise Legrand and Andrew Turner are lying on the floor, entwined in each other's arms on a bed of leaves. Grégoire is the animator. By rhythmic leaf shaking and gentle prods, she wakes them up and they roll to their own spaces beneath a bamboo lamp. The rest of the dance includes their coming together, only to become separate entities at the end, each sitting in his or her bed of leaves. Yet when they do part, one can still sense the strong bond between them.

The whimsy of the dance is found in the wide-eyed wonder each dancer feels at being alive, and then the ecstatic joy of discovering the others and the good times to be had between them. At first, Grégoire has a rhythmic duet with each one separately. Ultimately they all move together, or else become leaders and followers, yet never breaking out of the ever-changing rhythmic structure.

One delightful sequence has the four trying to put on their boots. Their language sounds like the beeps and squeaks of outer-world aliens. After they stand bemused for a few seconds, the collective light bulb seems to go off in their heads, and they execute with marine-drill precision the act of bending over and tying each other's laces. This is just one section of the dance that earned chuckles from the audience.

What Grégoire and her dancers have created is movement as a living bond.

Their interconnection radiates across the stage. They dance like they have no bones. The movement is supple, fluid and relaxed, whether in small steps or big body swoops, whether in synchronization or as individuals. Their expressive faces telegraph when they are passing or receiving impulses. The love, for lack of a better word, is palpable.

Even more so, the connection pervades the theatre and unites the dancers with the audience. A positive outlook, it seems, embraces everyone within reach.

Ôs continues tonight at the Theatre Centre in Toronto (416-538-0988). The show appears in Montreal at Studio 303, from Jan. 31 to Feb. 3.