SANTA CLARA, Calif., March 4, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Marvell (Nasdaq: MRVL) today announced that the award-winning Marvell® ARMADA® 1500 Series Smart TV SoC platform (88DE3100) has been honored with the 2013 China Annual Creativity in Electronics (ACE) Award for Product of the Year in the Mixed-Signal Controller/Processor/SoC category. The ACE Awards recognize the technologies, companies and people that have made a great contribution to the innovation and development of the electronics industry. The ARMADA 1500 SoC platform was selected for its significant design, technical benefits and overall impact on the global electronics market.

(Photo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20130304/AQ70032)

(Logo: https://investor.marvell.com/image/Marvell_logo.jpg)

"I believe 2013 is the big year for Google TV and Android TV globally, and we are very thankful and proud to be recognized for our innovation and leadership in delivering creative and immersive digital entertainment experiences to the 'Big Smart Screens' for the global market. We are very pleased to see our global leadership for Smart TV, Smartphone and Tablet total solutions dramatically empower today's 'Connected Lifestyle' allowing consumers to easily access live digital content on any screen size, anywhere and anytime," said Weili Dai, Co-Founder of Marvell. "Through our hard work and strong partnerships with Google and global tier-1 manufacturers in the ecosystem, the Marvell ARMADA 1500 SoC platform has become a key driver in enabling more powerful, affordable and easy-to-use Google TVs and Android TVs in the world. I am very proud of our engineers and team for their foresight, innovation and contributions to drive the new era of the digital lifestyle and make the world a better place for all."

The ARMADA 1500 SoC platform is at the core of the latest breakthrough Google TV and Android TV products from leading global manufacturers, including: the ASUS Qube; the Hisense Pulse and XT780 Smart TV series; the Lenovo S-Series of Smart TVs; the LGU+ IPTV Google TV set-top box; the Netgear NeoTV PRIME; the Sony NSZ-GS7; the TCL MoVo and MoVo Box; and the Vizio Co-Star. "The Marvell ARMADA 1500 SoC platform offers excellent technical advantages in high-definition video processing, while fully meeting the demands of China's Smart TV manufacturers, enabling OEMs to provide high-performance, low power, and cost-effective home entertainment products," said Yorbe Zhang, chief executive analyst, EE Times-China. "We are impressed by Marvell's commitment to the vision of a connected lifestyle, and we are looking forward to seeing Marvell introduce more breakthrough technologies that change people's lives."

The ARMADA 1500 contains Marvell's award-winning Qdeo™® video processing for state-of-the-art HD and 3D video, including scaling, noise reduction, de-interlacing, low bit-rate Internet video enhancement and FRC and color/contrast enhancement. The chip offers VMeta™, a multi-format video decoder that can decode up to two simultaneous 1080p streams as well as a host of other video formats and containers.

In addition to the ACE award, the ARMADA 1500 SoC platform has received two esteemed American Business Awards in the "Best New Hardware Product or Service" and "Favorite Hardware—People's Choice" categories.

The China Annual Creativity in Electronics Awards honors the technologies, companies and people that have helped to shape innovative electronic design in mainland China. Candidates for the product awards are chosen by nearly 20 senior editors from leading business-to-business media companies and Global Sources. Winners are selected through votes from the online community.

About Marvell

Marvell (NASDAQ: MRVL) is a global leader in providing complete silicon solutions enabling the digital connected lifestyle. From mobile communications to storage, cloud infrastructure, digital entertainment and in-home content delivery, Marvell's diverse product portfolio aligns complete platform designs with industry-leading performance, security, reliability and efficiency. At the core of powerful consumer, network and enterprise systems, Marvell empowers partners and their customers to always stand at the forefront of innovation, performance and mass appeal. By providing people around the world with mobility and ease of access to services adding value to their social, private and work lives, Marvell is committed to enhancing the human experience.

As used in this release, the term "Marvell" refers to Marvell Technology Group Ltd. and its subsidiaries. For more information, please visit www.Marvell.com.

Marvell, the M logo, ARMADA, Qdeo are registered trademarks of Marvell and/or its affiliates. VMeta is a trademark of Marvell and/or its affiliates. Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others.

SOURCE Marvell