Loosely based on Eric Rohmer's 1972 film Chloe In The Afternoon, Chris Rock's sophomore directing effort I Think I Love My Wife updates the French tale to contemporary times with African-American characters and a Hollywood sensibility.

The dramedy follows Richard Cooper (Rock), an investment banker who has two kids with his beautiful wife Brenda (Gina Torres). Richard has a good job at Pupkin & Langford (a nod to Scorsese's King of Comedy) and, overall, enjoys a charmed life. But he is, as his voice-over narration reveals, bored out of mind and frustrated by the complete lack of sex in his marriage.

Richard constantly daydreams about other women but it's mere fantasy. Then genuine temptation walks into his life in the form of Nikki (Kerry Washington), the super-hot ex-flame of an old pal (Orlando Jones in a cameo).

Nikki comes to Richard under the guise of friendship but her frequent visits to his office and their long lunches suggest her motives are more than platonic; at least that's what Richard's co-workers (including Steve Buscemi as the office lothario) suspect.

Richard is struggling to resist Nikki's overtures but his boredom and sexual frustration are getting the better of him. He begins acting like he's having an affair -- sneaking around with Nikki, missing meetings -- even though he's not. Before long, Richard's job and marriage are on the line ... and the opportunity to actually bed Nikki becomes a reality. What Richard's ultimate decision will be drives the plot forward, although the title clearly suggests the outcome.

While I Think I Love My Wife has its moments, it's ultimately neither funny nor weighty enough to work as either a comedy or a drama. There are long and sometimes boring passages throughout the film (and this is the non-French version, remember). The jokes are not especially memorable; indeed, there are no truly laugh-out loud moments in the movie, which is all the more stunning since the script was penned by Rock and fellow comic Louis C.K.

The film often works better as a light drama with Rock giving an effective performance as a buttoned-down suburbanite desperately craving a more adventurous and amorous life than he's ever known. Despite his reputation as one of the most provocative stand-up comics of his generation, it is interesting to note that the values Rock espouses in his work are essentially traditional ones (home, family, work).

Just as Richard is torn between the passion offered by Nikki and the love of Brenda, I Think I Love My Wife doesn't seem to know which choice to embrace (comedy or drama) and ends up being a hit-and-miss affair.

Score: 5 out of 10

(Film review by Stax)

Video and Presentation

I Think I Love My Wife is presented on a double-sided DVD that includes both its original 2:35:1 widescreen version and a 4:3 fullscreen crop. While the double presentation is always appreciated, the quality of the image leaves a lot to be desired. The video transfer seems to be aimed mostly at the SDTV crowd, with tremendous amounts of edge enhancement cluttering up most scenes. It's especially apparent in bright outdoor scenes as vague ripples at the borders of onscreen objects, but if you look closely you can see it even in Richard's office setting. It doesn't destroy the picture, but it's a severe problem for anyone with an upscaling DVD player and/or a large screen. Other than that, the transfer looks pretty good, with rich, accurate colors and sufficient detail levels to show off the goose bumps on Nikki's skin during one of Richard's more tempting encounters with the beautiful face from his past.

Score: 4 out of 10

Languages and Audio

The audio presentation of I Think I Love My Wife is pretty basic—there's a 5.1 surround sound audio track as well as a 2-channel commentary track by Rock. The surround is as good as one would hope—dialogue is clear and levels are where they should be. From the jazz themes to the car horns of New York, we get everything that should be heard without any problem. The surround isn't terribly well utilized, but that's to be expected from a movie that's mainly conversations and narration set to soft music. In one of the few scenes that really tests a speaker set-up, when Richard ventures to a nightclub, the bass is loud enough to give the appropriate feel, but important dialogue remains totally audible. The disc also includes subtitles in English, French and Spanish.

Score: 6 out of 10

Packaging and Extras

The double-sided disc includes an array of extras, including a nice making-of featurette, thirteen deleted and alternate scenes, Chris Rock's audio commentary, a bloopers reel, an episode of Fox Movie Channel's Casting Sessions, and several movie trailers for upcoming theatrical and DVD releases.

The commentary is enjoyable, mainly because Chris Rock is a smart guy who's learned a lot about filmmaking in a short space of time, and he relates his stories in the most entertaining ways. The same is true of the making-of featurette, appropriately titled "I Do Love Making This Movie". Here Rock and co-writer Louis CK go into their process of adapting Chloe into the present movie while the actors get to discuss their roles and generally talk up how nice it was to work with Rock and company. The Casting Session episode covers much of the same ground as the featurette, but here Rock talks more about what prompted him to move away from popular but hollow mainstream movies he's known for, and toward a more Woody Allen type of project. It may, for instance, be surprising for some to find out that Rock desires Oscar recognition, if not for this film, then for one like it in the near future. The extra scenes are a nice addition, especially because there are just so many and some of them, had they been included, would have fairly dramatically altered the course of the film.

Score: 9 out of 10

The Bottom Line

A mediocre dramedy that points to a good amount of potential for writer/director/star Chris Rock. A strong supporting cast and a few memorable jokes go a long way toward ameliorating the film's hit-or-miss appeal, but not quite far enough. The DVD presentation would be just about perfect, were it not for a shoddy video transfer.

(DVD review by Adam DiLeo)