Seven Seas Voyager® harbors overtones of elegance, from the refined Penthouse Suites to the modern touches of the Voyager Lounge.

Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates

The discovery of oil in 1958 transformed this rural backwater into a modern metropolis with the highest per-capita income in the world. Today, Abu Dhabi boasts extraordinary sky scrapers, shopping malls, top quality hotels, tree-lined boulevards and picturesque gardens, while still maintaining a subtle Arabian mystique. Sail the lovely Gulf waters and numerous islands surrounding the city in a traditional dhow; tour heritage Village, a living museum where artisans ply their traditional crafts; or shop the central souk area for gold and Bedouin silver jewelry.

Mahé, Seychelles

Mahé, the largest island of the Seychelles, was named for Mahé de Labourdonnais, a governor of Mauritius. It is the location of Port Victoria, the capital city. Ringed by steep and magnificent mountains, few capitals can claim a more beautiful backdrop. The nearby reefs and pristine marine national parks are a snorkeler’s paradise

Nosy Be, Madagascar

Discover exotic Nosy Be with its rich air fragrant from native spices and flowers and, neighboring Nosy Komba with its lemur population found only in this part of the world. Beginwith a stroll around the city center of Hellville in Nosy Be, visiting the open marketplace. Then hire a driver to take you on an island tour to see the bright blue volcanic lakes, or hire a boat to take you to Nosy Komba to visit the lemurs. Back in Nosy Be, shop for locally made perfume, distilled rum, finelinens and hand carved wooden art. Enjoy some of the fresh local seafood prepared with the local spices in this colorful and aromatic destination.

Maputo, Mozambique

Discover the relaxed charm of Maputo with its wide, European style boulevards, lush with jacaranda, bougainvillea and other tropical foliage, where old colonial palaces are mixed in with modern high-rise buildings. Visit The Cathedral built in 1944 in the shape of a cross, then the lively Mercado Central. Enjoy a snack of freshly roasted cashews and a cold bottled drink. Stop by the National Museum of Art then stroll along the Avenida Julius Nyerere, browsing the boutiques, vendors, and restaurants. Look for African waxprint and woven fabrics, beautiful wooden boxes and picture frames. Seek out the surreal Pancho Guedes buildings, reminiscent of Gaudi. Visit the Praça de Trabalhadores designed by Gustave Eiffel in the late 19th century. Sip coffee in one of the many outdoor cafés as you watch the world go by in this vibrant seaside capital.

Richards Bay, South Africa

Richards Bay is one of South Africa’s largest harbors, and is the tourist’s gateway to Zululand, once the mightiest of the sub-Saharan African Kingdoms. Richards Bay began its life as a makeshift harbor, set up by Sir Fredererick Richards, after whom it is named, during the Anglo-Boer War of 1880-81. Richards Bay has some of the most spectacular wetland scenery and pristine beaches on the north coast of KwaZulu Natal. Join us as we explore the land of King Shaka, or embark on an unforgettable safari to Hluhluwe-Umfolozi Game Reserve.

Mossel Bay, South Africa

Situated halfway between Cape Town and Port Elizabeth, Mossel Bay offers more than 37 miles of beaches and at least 300 days of sunshine a year. Known as the location where the first Europeans made landfall on South African soil in 1488, today’s Mossel Bay is one of the country’s most popular beach destinations, as well as a haven for outdoor adventurers.

Cape Town, South Africa

Called ‘the fairest cape in the whole circumference of the earth’ and regarded as one of the world’s most beautiful cities, Cape Town offers museums, lush parks and shops. Impressive mountains, magnificent beaches and outstanding wineries add to the attraction. Ride a cable-car to the top of famous flat-topped Table Mountain and gaze at the mosaic of towering mountains, verdant valleys and the confluence of the Atlantic and Indian Oceans. The historical highlight is Robben Island, once the prison holding such outstanding anti-apartheid leaders as Nelson Mandela.

The ships of Regent Seven Seas Cruises offer voyages of exploration and discovery to more than 300 ports on all seven continents. All luxury vessels are designed for guests numbering in the hundreds rather than the thousands. The ambiance on board is personal, individual, accommodating – “upscale but not uptight.” And all ships share certain distinctions in accommodations, service, dining and amenities that elevate them to the lofty vantage point of the enviable six stars.

The Regent Seven Seas Cruises fleet includes sister all-suite, all-balcony, 700-guest ships Seven Seas Voyager and Seven Seas Mariner; and the all-suite, 90% balcony Seven Seas Navigator.

Regent Seven Seas Cruises provides discerning guests with the most inclusive luxury cruise experience by offering an incomparable array of complimentary features and services. See below for a listing of these items, combining to provide unprecedented value.

~FREE Unlimited Shore Excursions* ~FREE Luxury Hotel Package for 1st and 2nd guests* ~FREE Beverages including fine wines and premium spirits ~FREE Pre-Paid Gratuities ~FREE In-suite mini-bar replenished daily ~FREE 24-hour room service and no additional charge for specialty restaurants ~Elegant casual dress code. Formal and semi-formal attire optional on sailings of 16 nights or longer ~Welcome bottle of champagne ~Up to four gourmet restaurants including the iconic new steakhouse Prime 7, and Signatures, featuring Le Cordon Bleu®-inspired cuisine, Compass Rose, La Veranda plus the al fresco Pool Grill ~In-suite dining, served course-by-course during restaurant hours ~Butler service in Penthouse Suites and higher, including complimentary in-suite mini-bar setup and iPod® docking station ~Fitness programs, sauna and steam rooms in the spa ~Onboard activities including expert guest lectures, theatre performance and day time entertainment ~Interactive flat screen television in each suite with extensive media library and complimentary movies-on-demand

*Supplement will apply on Regent Choice excursions and excludes Private Arrangements and all Adventure Ashore programmes. FREE 1-Night Pre-Cruise Luxury Hotel Package is available for Concierge Suites and Higher only.