Tributes to Jane Birkin are pouring in from all over the world. While the icon passed away on July 16 at the age of 76, her voice continues on, resonating alongside that of Serge Gainsbourg in the song Je t'aime… moi non plus. A scandalous song, with a passion all of its own, created by Gainsbourg.

“The most beautiful love song in the world”

The year is 1967. Serge Gainsbourg and Brigitte Bardot are in the midst of a torrid, secret love affair, all the more so as it was an adulterous one. Bardot was at the peak of her career, a sex symbol desired by all, whose company and artistic collaborations were in great demand. While spending the night at her lover's place on rue de Verneuil, Bardot asked Gainsbourg to write her “the most beautiful love song he could imagine”. From this nocturnal impulse, forbidden and motivated by passion, sprung forth two new tracks: Initials B.B. and Je t'aime… moi non plus. The first erotic duet in the history of songwriting, dedicated to the nostalgia of disenchantment, was broadcast on French radio station Europe 1 the very next day.

But this display of explicit sensuality did not please Gunter Sachs, a seasoned businessman and, more importantly, Bardot's husband, who had the song banned from the airwaves under threat of legal action. This (justified) jealousy sounded the death knell of B.B. and Gainsbourg's romance, silencing the adulterous couple's courtship. Gainsbourg swore to Bardot that the song belonged to her, and that he would never record it with anyone else, since it was made for her.

A new rendition goes down in history

Meanwhile, the Birkin legend was beginning to take shape across the Channel. The year was 1968, and Jane was 22 years old, making her film debut. That same year, she landed a role in Pierre Grimblat's film Slogan. On set, she met Gainsbourg, who snubbed and ignored her, unhappy at not having Marisa Berenson as his scene partner. But the ice was eventually broken, and Jane Birkin ultimately received all of Gainsbourg's fiery devotion.

In secret, people still listened to Je t'aime… moi non plus. The stars of the day flocked to rue de Verneuil, and Gainsbourg wanted to give this provocative song a second chance and propel it to the top of the charts. Years later, Jane Birkin would confess to having agreed to perform the song in a fit of jealousy.

Birkin rose to the rank of muse and the couple became iconic, over-mediatized, and fantasized about. To differentiate this version from the one he had recorded with Bardot, Gainsbourg made Birkin sing an octave higher, in a register that embodied her delicate, sensual fragility. The song became all the more scandalous, to the point of being censured by the Vatican, and declared forbidden to those under 21. Despite these prohibitions, Je t'aime… moi non plus enjoyed an insolent and provocative success, much to the delight of its singers, invading all of France's discotheques to become the sultry soundtrack to countless slow dances.

Another hit

Some 19 years later, in 1986, Brigitte Bardot decided to re-release the original version of Je t'aime… moi non plus that she recorded with Gainsbourg, who gave her his verbal approval… over the phone. Already profiting from its earlier success, and with the added help of Birkin's version, Bardot's re-released version enjoyed continued success.

Je t'aime… moi non plus remains the first ever erotic duet in the history of music. A musical triumph bathed in scandal, this song helped etch into history the sparks of Gainsbourg's passion for the two woman who shaped his life.

Translated by Jack Pownall.