NEW BUFFALO, Mich. – October 13, 2021 – The Pokagon Band of Potawatomi Indians’ Four Winds® Casinos are pleased to announce a concert by two of Rock n’ Roll’s powerhouse bands, Great White and Slaughter, at Four Winds New Buffalo’s® Silver Creek Event Center on Friday, March 4, at 9 p.m. Tickets can be purchased online at www.fourwindscasino.com beginning on Friday, October 15 at 11 a.m. Eastern and ticket prices start at $25 plus applicable fees. Hotel rooms are available on the night of the concert and can be purchased with event tickets.

Great White is an American hard rock band that formed in Los Angeles in 1977. The band has sold over 10 million albums worldwide, has six Top 100 Billboard hits, nine Top 200 Billboard albums, and two platinum albums. Great White is best known for their Grammy® nominated Best Hard Rock Performance hit, “Once Bitten, Twice Shy.” Other hit singles include “Rock Me,” “Save Your Love,” “The Angel Song,” “Mistabone,” “I've Got Something For You,” “Feeling So Much Better,” and “Complicated.” The current lineup includes original members Mark Kendall (guitar), Michael Lardie (guitar, keyboards), Audie Desbrow (drums) and are joined by Mitch Malloy (lead singer), and Scott Snyder (bass). More information about Great White is available at www.officialgreatwhite.com.

Slaughter is an American rock band formed in Las Vegas in 1988. The band reached stardom in 1990 with their first album, “Stick It To Ya,” which reached double platinum in the United States. The album included several hit singles including “Up All Night,” “Spend My Life,” “Mad About You,” and “Fly to the Angels.” Slaughter has played for close to three decades rocking stadiums around the globe. They have shown that with perseverance and sheer talent, a band can survive and win over the support of fans. The band includes Mark Slaughter (lead vocals and rhythm guitar), Dana Strum (bass), Jeff Blando (lead guitar and backup vocals), and Blas Elias (drums). More information about Slaughter is available at www.slaughterusa.com.

Reservations and Information

To make a hotel reservation at Four Winds New Buffalo or for more information on Four Winds New Buffalo, Four Winds Hartford®, Four Winds Dowagiac® or Four Winds South Bend®, please call 1 (866)-4WINDS1, (866) 494-6371 or visit www.fourwindscasino.com. Additionally, be sure to like Four Winds on Facebook at www.facebook.com/fourwindscasino and follow on Twitter at www.twitter.com/fourwindscasino for information on the latest offers and promotions.

About The Pokagon Band of Potawatomi Indians of Michigan and Indiana. The Pokagon Band of Potawatomi’s sovereignty was reaffirmed under legislation signed into law by President Clinton in September of 1994. The Pokagon Band is dedicated to providing community development initiatives such as housing, education, family services, medical care and cultural preservation for its more than 5,900 citizens. The Pokagon Band’s ten-county service area includes four counties in Southwestern Michigan and six in Northern Indiana. Its main administrative offices are located in Dowagiac, Mich., with a satellite office in South Bend, Ind. In 2007, it opened Four Winds Casino Resort in New Buffalo, Mich., followed by Four Winds Hartford in 2011, Four Winds Dowagiac in 2013 and Four Winds South Bend in January 2018. The Pokagon Band operates a variety of businesses via Mno-Bmadsen, its non-gaming investment enterprise. More information is available at www.pokagonband-nsn.gov, www.fourwindscasino.com and www.mno-bmadsen.com.