Sada-e-Watan Sydney ™ sadaewatan@gmail.com

Mrs Darakhshan Alavi and Mr Rehan Alavi

A brief report about Renowned Broadcaster, Writer and Journalist Rehan Alavi’s Unique Book with Unique presentation and inauguration

The Sydney launch of Rehan Alavi’s book “Ek Ghazal Ek Kahani” was held on the afternoon of Sunday 22 October 2017 at The Connection in Rhodes with the presence of politicians, media personalities and community leaders. Author/Journalist/Poet Rehan Alavi celebrated the publication of EK GHAZAL EK KAHANI (Collection of author’s prose and poetry). Mobinah Ahmad, provides photographs to Sada-e-Watan.

Rehan Alavi

Rehan Alavi is writing fiction for more than two decades. He came across with thousands of real-life stories during his career as radio journalist and executive producer since he migrated from Pakistan to Australia fourteen years back. Professionally, he is an IT operations analyst in an American multinational. Rehan graduated from University of Technology, Sydney but equally loves to live behind the microphone besides writing on social and political topics. Rehan has contributed articles and blogs to a variety of magazines and written many short stories. Several of his popular fictions are published in Urdu language. He spends his time mixing with and writing about some of the shadiest characters of real life. He loves social drama and the artistic suspense of breaking moments that reflects in his stories and grips the reader. Rehan is married and settled in Sydney with his wife and two daughters.

The Prominent Australian Pakistani Poet and head of SBS Urdu service Mr. Rehan Alavi’s book launch was attended by well-known respectable dignitaries and high profile personalities. Various literary and academic personalities spoken on the occasion. Event was dedicated to the diversified values of Australia and showcased Pakistani/Urdu literary contribution of Pakistanis living in Australia.

Noshi Gilani

MC of the event were Famous Poet Noshi Gilani

Mr Talib Haider

and Geo news fame Talib Haider.

Various renowned guests including Pip Spilsbury, Network Manager SBS talked about Rehan’s work and his personality and many other talented personalities presented his stories and Story/poetry with an artistic mode of delivery.

Yasmeen Shad, Uzma Gillani and Javed Nazar

Following personalities participated in the event. Narration by Legendry artist Uzma Gillani, performance by Uzma Gillani, Mrs Yasmin Shad, Mr Javed Nazar , recitation by Poet Huma Mirza, Poet Arshad Saeed from Melbourne, Poet Mr Arif Sadiq, presentation by Atif Faheem and Ali Chohan of Meri pehchan Pakistan and an impressive narration by Uzma Gillani. Consul General of Pakistan in Sydney Abdul Majid Yousfani and Greens member of NSW legislative council Dr Mehreen Faruqi were also present. Guest’s speakers: Renowned poet/author academic Prof Rais Alvi from Pakistan, Prof Samina Yasmin (UWA Perth), prominent author/poet Ashraf Shad, Prof James Trevelyan (UWA-Perth). Poetry recited by Adelaide singer Abdul Rahim beautifully. SBS Network Manager, Program Manager and representative of many language groups also attended the event. The scenic venue with breathtaking views is praised by attendees as state of the art hall

with automated multimedia facilities at river bank of Rhodes is first time ever portrayed any Urdu literary event in Sydney.

Pip Spilsbury

Huma Mirza

Atif Faheem

Arshad Saeed of Melbourne

Prof James Trevelyan

Abdul Rahim of Adelaide

Mr Arif Sadiq

Ashraf Shad

Prof Samina Yasmin

Prof Rais Alvi

Uzma Gillani

Hon. Dr Mehreen Faruqi

CG Abdul Majid Yousfani

Ashraf Shad, Syed Zafar Hussain, Rehan Alavi and Dr Sayeed Khan

Muhammed Asif, Prof James Trevelyan, Rehan Alavi and Abdul Majid Yousfani

Mr Ahmad Reza, Consellor Pak Consulate Bushra Salam and Rehan Alavi

Hon. Dr Mehreen Faruqi, Abdul Majid Yousfani, Rehan Alavi and Uzma Gillani

Saeed Khan, Noshi Gilani, Rehan Alavi and Darakhshan Alavi

Mrs and Mr Rehan Alavi with their daughters Hijab and Anem

Pip Spilsbury, Network Manager SBS

Author/Journalist/Poet/ broadcaster Rehan Alavi

Legendry artist Uzma Gillani