TRAILER: YOUTUBE

LONDON, UK – 20TH JUNE, 2024 – Today, during the Limited Run Games showcase, Ubisoft announced that Beyond Good & Evil - 20th Anniversary Edition will be available on 25th June on PlayStation®5 & PlayStation®4, Xbox Series X|S, Xbox One, Nintendo SwitchTM, Amazon Luna and PC through the Ubisoft Store, Epic Games Store and Steam, to celebrate the 20 years of the franchise. To add to the celebration, Limited Run Games showcase also revealed their involvement in the physical edition and a Collector Edition which will be coming soon, with pre-orders opening on 12th July.

Players will be able to (re)discover the pioneering Action-Adventure game by exploring the wonderfully odd maritime world of Hillys in the best way possible with improved performances up to 4k, 60fps and numerous qualities of life improvements including autosave, cutscene-skip, full controller and keyboard & mouse support, and cross-save across all platforms.

Alongside these updates, Beyond Good & Evil - 20th Anniversary Edition will also introduce a new Speedrun Mode to challenge players, 20+ new achievements and an Anniversary Gallery delving deep into the game’s development history and featuring tons of never-before-seen artworks, videos and so much more.

Finally, this special edition will feature hunt in which players can discover more about Jade’s past and collect exclusive cosmetic rewards. This exclusive new mission also reveals more about the narrative link to Beyond Good & Evil 2, showing Ubisoft’s enduring commitment to the franchise.

For the latest news on Beyond Good & Evil – 20th Anniversary Edition, please visit: https://bgegame.com/20th-anniversary

About Beyond Good & Evil - 20th Anniversary Edition

Developed by Virtuos Games under the supervision of Ubisoft Montpellier, Beyond Good & Evil - 20th Anniversary Edition celebrates the 20 years of the legendary Ubisoft franchise. Thanks to many qualities of life and performance updates, players will be able to (re)discover the original game on all platforms with new features and exclusive new content, including a Treasure Hunt revealing more about Jade’s history.

About Ubisoft

Ubisoft is a creator of worlds, committed to enriching players’ lives with original and memorable entertainment experiences. Ubisoft’s global teams create and develop a deep and diverse portfolio of games, featuring brands such as Assassin’s Creed®, Brawlhalla®, For Honor®, Far Cry®, Tom Clancy’s Ghost Recon®, Just Dance®, Rabbids®, Tom Clancy’s Rainbow Six®, The Crew® and Tom Clancy’s The Division®. Through Ubisoft Connect, players can enjoy an ecosystem of services to enhance their gaming experience, get rewards and connect with friends across platforms. With Ubisoft+, the subscription service, they can access a growing catalogue of more than 100 Ubisoft games and DLC. For the 2023-24 fiscal year, Ubisoft generated net bookings of €2.32 billion. To learn more, please visit: www.ubisoftgroup.com.

© 2024 Ubisoft Entertainment. All Rights Reserved. Ubisoft and the Ubisoft logo are registered trademarks in the US and/or other countries.