Healthy People.

Better World.

That means all people — regardless of politics, religion, or ability to pay. Improving their lives is Direct Relief’s mission.

Humanitarian Relief

Direct Relief works in the US and internationally to expand access to medicine and healthcare by equipping doctors and nurses with lifesaving medical resources.

80+ countries and 50 U.S. states

Disaster-ready designs

A focus on health

Anytime. Anywhere. Anyone in Need.

Disaster relief

Wildfire Relief

Direct Relief is responding to wildfires in the US, including in its home state of California.

Hurricanes

Hurricane Relief

Direct Relief responds to hurricanes with medications and medical supplies needed in a storm’s wake.

Health Equity

Fund for Health Equity

Direct Relief supports communities in which the effects of racism and socioeconomic disparities persist.

AID TRACKER

Unaudited totals since Jan. 1, 2024

in medical aid

$961,655,524

doses of medicine

300,031,490

pounds of medicine and supplies

3,778,904

deliveries

16,627

healthcare providers supported

2,135

Giving is Good Medicine

Everything Direct Relief does, every person whose life is improved or saved, stems from an act of generosity that’s purely voluntary. You don’t have to donate. That’s why it’s so extraordinary when you do.

Efficient. Effective. Transparent.

Nongovernmental. Nonsectarian. Apolitical.

★★★★

Top Rating

Best Charities

100%

Efficiency Rating

Top 10 U.S. Charities

Top 10

Most Innovative

Non-Profits

0%

of donations

Spent on Fundraising

Get Involved

Three Ways to Make a Difference

Invest in a healthier world

Rally your community to help others

Put your business to work for humanity

In Focus

Charity Ratings

Direct Relief Ranked 5th Largest U.S. Charity

Growth occurred in a year when Direct Relief extended more help to more people in need than ever before in its 75-year history.

Disaster Relief

Ready When Disasters Strike

A trusted international network enables Direct Relief to assess immediate healthcare needs and respond quickly and efficiently when a disaster strikes.

Issues & Solutions

Advancing Health Globally

Direct Relief equips health professionals in resource-poor communities to meet the challenges of diagnosing, treating and caring for people in need.

Charity Navigator

Direct Relief Earns 100% Impact Rating

Direct Relief’s leading financial performance and efficiency earns 4 stars and a 100% impact rating from Charity Navigator.

United States

Medicaid Changes Roiled the Nation. Health Centers Are Smoothing the Path to Care Access.

Over the past year, patients who rely on Medicaid have been on a roller coaster of changing rules and requirements. More than 24 million people have been disenrolled from the public ...

Continue reading

Puerto Rico

Tropical Storm Ernesto Threatens the Caribbean

A tropical storm warning has been issued for St. Kitts & Nevis, Montserrat, Antigua & Barbuda, Anguilla, Guadeloupe, St. Martin, St. Barts, British Virgin Islands, US Virgin ...

FedEx

Direct Relief, FedEx Mark 15 Years of Supplying Emergency Medical Backpacks for Global Disasters and Health Crises

When hurricanes and earthquakes injure people and destroy local health facilities, when wildfires force residents to flee their homes, and when people in the U.S. without homes need medical ...