The First German Empire lasted 1000 years. It was established in 800 AD, was reconfirmed in 962 AD and dissolved in 1806. Officially it was known as the Holy Roman Empire.

After the death of Charlemagne, the Empire split into West Frankia… which gradually became France…and East Frankia which continued as the German Holy Roman Empire. In 962 the Empire was reconfirmed by Otto I, who consolidated control over the autonomous stem duchies of Franconia, Bavaria, Swabia, Saxony, and Lotharingia. The single headed eagle was the coat of arms of the Empire until 1440, when the two headed eagle was adopted, signifying that the empire was both spiritual and secular.

Prussia won the the Seven Weeks War and directly annexed some of the German states that had sided with Austria, such as Hanover and Nassau. In an act of leniency, Prussia allowed Bavaria, Baden and some of the larger Austrian allies to maintain their independence.

The final step to a new German Empire was the Franco Prussian war of 1870. Five years after the Austro Prussian War, France declared war on Prussia and gave the Germans a reason to unite. Prussia rallied German public opinion and even gained the support of their previous enemies, the south German states of Bavaria, Württemberg, and Baden. With Prussian armies led by a proven General Staff and battle hardened troops, Chancellor Bismarck was confident of victory and laid out the final plans for German unification.

France was overconfident. They feared that Prussia was getting too powerful and they were convinced that they could win and preserve their status as Europe’s pre-eminent power. They were emboldened by the reorganization of the French army in 1866. They were equipped with new rifles and the latest machine guns and felt superior to the Germans. Also, Napoleon III believed a French victory would increase his failing popularity with French citizens. International observers were sure that France would win the war.

What actually happened is that France was quickly out-maneuvered and defeated. Napoleon III was captured and released into exile in England. France then declared itself a Republic and continued fighting until the siege and surrender of Paris in January 1871. Prussia was victorious and ready to announce formation of a new German Empire. In a strong symbolic show of force, the new Reich was announced in France, the country that ended the first empire in 1806. Prussian King Wilhelm, the victor of the Franco-Prussian War, was hailed as Germany’s new Emperor in the halls of the Versailles Palace in France.

Explore images on brand new products at my stores

https://www.etsy.com/shop/vintagegermanygifts