Privacy policy

We want to ensure that when you visit our websites, you can do so in the confidence that your personal data is safe and secure.

Anonymous information

Cookies

IP address

Geolocation

Personal information

Social networking and discussion forum

My Darlington+

Online payments

Data protection and access to information

Other websites

The Internal Market Information System

This policy applies to the following websites and the online functionality contained in them:

Darlington Borough Council website (www.darlington.gov.uk).

Darlington Civic Theatre

Do the Localmotion

DLD Live

DarlingtonLIS

Planning Policy Consultation Portal

It does not apply to any other sites, including websites which we may link to from these pages (see other websites).

Due to changes in legislation and improvements to the website, we may need to make changes to this privacy policy from time to time. Any changes we make in the future will be posted on this page.

Anonymous information

We collect anonymous information when web users access our site.

This may include:

Your computer's IP address (more information about IP addresses below)

The browser and operating system you are using

The date and time of your visit

The pages you have visited.

We use this information to

Help develop the website (for example, if we know which browsers web users are accessing this website with, we can make sure that the site is compatible in that browser)

Help us determine which pages web users are visiting so we can improve navigation on the website

Help identify certain accounts on My Darlington+ so we can troubleshoot problems with accounts

Allow you to participate in interactive features of our service, when you choose to do so

Notify you about changes to our service

This information does not contain personal data and we will not be able to trace it back to an individual.

Cookies

There is more information about Cookies and how we have dealt with the EU e-Privacy directive on our Cookies page

IP address

An Internet Protocol (IP) address is the numeric address of a computer and is determined by your internet service provider. It is different to your house address and although we can determine a rough geographic location from it, we cannot use it to identify you personally.

We use the IP address to identify individual computers. For example, we can use it to find out how many computers outside of Darlington are accessing the website.

In the event of serious criminal misuse of the internet, your internet service provider and the police may be able to use your IP address to identify you.

Geolocation

If you use the mobile version of this website and use a page with a Google Map on it, you have the option of pinpointing your exact location using your mobile phone. You can also use this functionality on Firefox 3.6+, Internet Explorer 9+ and Chrome 10+. This functionality is optional and we do not store/track your location when using this service.

Personal information

We will not capture and store any personal information about you when you visit our website, unless you voluntarily choose to (for example, if you fill in an online form, email us or sign-up to our online forum)

We may ask for certain information such as your name, address, telephone number or email address. We will not pass this information on unless:

When our services are provided through partnerships with other organisations and we need to share information with these third-parties

We are legally obliged to do so

We may use non-personal information (for example, comments) for research purposes and reports. If this happens, we will not personally identify the person who provided the feedback.

Although we will do our best to protect your personal data, we cannot guarantee the security of your data transmitted to our site; any transmission is at your own risk. Once we have received your information, we will use strict procedures and security features to try and prevent unauthorised access.

Social networking and discussion forum

View our legal disclaimer for social networking and discussion forum to find out about confidentiality when posting on our social networking profiles or discussion forum.

My Darlington+

In order to receive all the benefits of My Darlington+ you will need to register. If you register for our basic service, all you will need to provide is a username (which does not need to be your real name) and email address. Your email address will not be given to any third parties, although we may use it to contact you in regards to My Darlington+ from time to time.

If you want to take advantage of other functionality (for example, viewing your council tax online), you will need to provide additional information. This may include your name, address and your council tax/housing rents number. This information will be used for verification purposes and we will not pass any of this information to a third party.

Online payments

All pages which are used to collect payment details are secure pages (they have a web address starting with 'https' rather than 'http'). This means that any payments you make through this website are encrypted.

Personal details supplied through online payments will be held and/or computerised by us for the purpose of processing your payment. Some personal details will be disclosed to banks and other financial institutions in order to process your payment. Your personal details will be safeguarded and will not be divulged to any other individuals or organisations for any other purposes.

Data protection and access to information

Under the Data Protection Act 1998, we have a legal duty to protect any information we collect from you.

The Access to Information Act gives you the right to access information held about you. Your right of access can be exercised in accordance with the Act. Any access request may be subject to a fee of £10 to meet our costs in providing you with details of the information we hold about you.

More information about Data Protection

Other websites

Our site may, from time to time, contain links to other websites. If you follow a link to any of these websites, please note that these websites have their own privacy policies and that we do not accept any responsibility or liability for these policies. We ask that you check these policies before you submit any personal data to these websites.

The Internal Market Information System (IMI)

The IMI is a piece of software developed by the European Commission to make sharing information between ‘competent authorities’ in European Union (EU) member states easier. Competent authorities are local, regional or national bodies that have responsibility for implementing certain aspects of the law.

We will only share information that you provide to in very limited circumstances, for example, if you apply to set up a business in another EU member state and they need us to check certain details about your trading history.