Narrator: Ian Marshall

(English and Spanish dialogue)

Having been appropriated by 20th-century pop culture as an icon on a T-shirt, or, worse, a supporting character in “Evita,” Ernesto (Che) Guevara is given his due as a major political force and the embodiment of revolutionary spirit in the passionate documentary “El Che.” Full of personal insights and a remarkable wealth of archival footage and interviews, this conventional but richly informative appreciation of the man and the legend should land limited theatrical exposure before going on to extensive TV and docu-forum coverage.

French documentary specialist Maurice Dugowson painstakingly retraces Guevara’s life and political career, beginning with his youth in early-’50s Argentina, when he set off on the road like Jack Kerouac, writing travel diaries , poetry and stories. His wanderings through the Andes, Patagonia, Peru and the Chilean desert informed his identity not as a citizen of one nation, but as a Latin American. Following his medical studies, he left Argentina forever, dedicating himself to fighting imperialism, poverty and social injustice throughout the continent.

The most decisive encounter in Guevara’s life clearly was with Fidel Castro, whom he met in Mexico and accompanied into Cuba to help overthrow the Batista dictatorship. An invaluable doctor and an exemplary soldier, he became Castro’s right-hand man, occupying important posts in the government that was formed after the coup. Recapping 10 years of mutual admiration between the two men, Dugowson also sheds light on the darker period and the ideological split that followed, during which Castro distanced himself from his former comrade, whose hard-line views earned him the title His Red Eminence.

Dugowsonweaves a surprising degree of pathos into his charting of Guevara’s downfall, also deftly introducing mystery elements into the series of events that forced Che to disappear from the political scene. The sense of being on borrowed time is cranked up throughout the account of his exile to Bolivia to train revolutionary troops in the late ’60s; Guevara’s death there, and the footage of his body laid out for press and photographers in a wash-house that today serves as a shrine pack considerable emotional weight.

Some political analysts may quibble with the balance of Dugowson’s focus, and the film’s personal observations often are as revealing as its political ones. The wide range of footage assembled here includes home movies shot by Guevara’s father, exhaustive material, presumably commissioned by Castro, documenting the Cuban period, and newsreels showing such curiosities as the dismantling of the Warner sign on a Havana building when all U.S. companies in Cuba were being nationalized. All of this is smartly, speedily edited into an easy-to-assimilate chronicle that should prove fascinating even to non-aficionados of political documentaries.