Just north of the popular Clacton-on-Sea lies a quiet English coastal town that couldn't be more different than its touristy neighbour. Frinton-on-Sea, on the north Essex coastline, hasn't changed much at all in the last 40 years due to strict rules upheld by the local council.

At the seaside, visitors might expect to find a string of ice cream vendors lining the beach, with queues of people waiting to order. But not in Frinton-on-Sea, because they're banned.

A three hours' drive from Birmingham, Frinton has a long and controversial history of businesses not being allowed into the town. It notoriously didn't even have a pub until 2000, when the Lock and Barrell opened.

Read more: Seaside town with 'best beer garden in UK' and hidden caves is a day trip from Birmingham

Frinton does have a long high street with an impressive variety of stores, but it wasn't straight forward for some of them to set up shop. For a town on the British coast, it seems hard to believe, but fish and chip shops were also banned until 1992.

It was then that Nice Fish and Chips, now Young's Fisheries of Frinton, opened its doors to customers. A second fish and chip shop was later allowed - but only as a sit-down restaurant, as EssexLive reports.

It was only because of the Covid pandemic that Pier One Fish and Chips was allowed to open a takeaway to complement their restaurant. The council continues to control which businesses are allowed into Frinton to this day, according to Pier One's owner Maxine Collins, 52.

She told the publication that different associations and the council are very strict on which shops can open there. Maxine recalled the challenges when Sainsbury's came to the high street. She said. "Sainsbury's couldn't come here until they changed their sign."

The tight rules mean there has been very little change in the town over the last few decades. Maxine says people return to the town after visiting 30 or 40 years ago as children and find it has hardly changed.

"Obviously there are different shops, but the high street hasn't changed dramatically," she said. "The green's the same, the beach is exactly the same, the beach huts are the same."

Jon Howell, 53, who runs the MIND charity shop on the high street, said: "The town is still quite old-fashioned, and I think a lot of effort has gone into keeping it that way."

He compared it to Clacton, saying that Frinton's appeal is that it's much more 'low key' than its louder neighbour. "The council are very keen not to change it, which is part of the appeal," he said.

"That's why most people come here. I think the residents are quite keen to keep it that way too. They're quite keen to keep things how it was when they grew up."

Locals have also noticed a big rise in younger visitors in recent years, many of whom come on the train from London for day trips, and seem to like the area's traditional appearance. Maxine says the town has a strong sense of community and was quick to rally to support someone whose house was completely destroyed in a fire recently.

Jon said one of Frinton's main strengths was its lack of chain stores and added: "That's the appeal, to get away from the big chains in the town centres."

Councillor Paul Clifton said: "The planning authorities, Tendring District Council and Essex County Council invite the town council to comment on planning applications submitted to them. Frinton & Walton Town Council is a statutory consultee for planning applications submitted to the local planning authorities, not the authority making the decision. The town council try to ensure that we maintain and keep the characteristics of the town."