A NEWCASTLE fan has been arrested after urinating on a statue of Sunderland legend Bob Stokoe outside the Stadium of Light.

The memorial recreates the late Stokoe’s famous dance across Wembley’s turf after he had masterminded the club’s 1-0 FA Cup final victory over Leeds United.

Footage has been circulated on social media of a man wearing a Newcastle United change shirt carrying out the vile act.

Stokoe, ironically, is also a hero and an FA Cup winner on Tyneside.

A Northumbria Police spokesperson said: “We are aware of a video circulating on social media which appears to show a man urinating on a memorial outside the Stadium of Light in Sunderland.

“This type of behaviour is totally unacceptable and a full investigation has been launched into the incident.

“A 21-year-old man has since been arrested on suspicion of disorderly conduct and remains in police custody at this time.

“We recognise that incidents of this nature can cause anger and frustration within our communities.

"We would ask everyone to please respect the ongoing investigation and refrain from anything that could jeopardise these live enquiries.”

A Sunderland Football Club spokesperson said on Monday: "This matter has been referred to the police and we will not be making any further comment at this moment in time."

JOIN SUN VEGAS: GET A FREE £10 BONUS WITH 100s OF GAMES TO PLAY AND NO DEPOSIT REQUIRED (Ts&Cs apply)

Born in 1930 the central defender made 261 appearances for Newcastle and was a member of their 1955 FA Cup final winning team.

He later joined Bury and managed the Lancashire side before taking charge of Charlton Athletic, Rochdale, Carlisle United and Blackpool.

Arriving at Sunderland in November 1972 while they were struggling towards the bottom of Division Two, he plotted the club’s FA Cup final triumph in May the following year.

He then guided the Black Cats back to the top flight in 1976.

Stokoe resigned just months later following a poor start to their Division One campaign and failed to keep the Wearsiders in Division Two in 1987 after he took over as caretaker boss following Lawrie McMenemy’s dismal reign.

Stokoe died at the age of 73 in 2004 in Hartlepool after suffering from pneumonia.