'SUPERBAD' STAR MAKES A CAREER OF HANGING OUT

Michael Cera, best known for playing George-Michael Bluth (Jason Bateman's son) on the now-canceled but much-loved sitcom 'Arrested Development,' gets sentimental when he explains how he found out he got the lead in 'Superbad,' the new comedy by the people responsible for 'Knocked Up.' It opens Friday.

Cera, 19, says he got a message from the young man who would be his costar, Jonah Hill.

Hill's voicemail not only informed Cera that he got the role, it also included an invitation to hang out, because if they were playing best friends on the big screen, they should probably spend some quality time together.

"I saved the message," Cera said, glancing lovingly at Hill during a recent stop in Boston to promote the film. "I kept it in my phone."

'Superbad' is all about guy love. It's a movie written by two close friends ('Knocked Up' star Seth Rogen and producer Evan Goldberg) about two high school seniors named Seth and Evan who must cope with the impending loss of each other when they attend different colleges after graduation.

It's about boys and their banter. It's about what most high school films are about, a quest for booze and virginity loss. But mostly, it is about best friends who can't stand to be apart.

While on a press tour for 'Superbad' in Boston, Cera and co-star Jonah Hill didn't want to do a standard interview. They wanted to bowl.

At Kings, a bowling alley in the Back Bay, they took over a lane for about an hour and teased each other.

Cera explained that it's this type of teasing that has made his career. It's when he's just hanging out and messing around with friends that he comes up with quotable comedy material.

It's how Cera came up with a successful Internet series called 'Clark and Michael' The 'webisodes' (viewable at clarkandmichael.com) are essentially quick segments featuring Cera and his close friend Clark Duke having couple-like banter.

Even the quips the young men make to each other at the bowling alley could make it into the next big-budget comedy, and Cera seems to know it.

- Boston Globe