Summer 2024 Curatorial & Collections Internship at Fraunces Tavern Museum

Job Title: Summer 2024 Curatorial & Collections Internship

Location: New York, NY

Summer 2024 Curatorial & Collections Internship

Fraunces Tavern® Museum, New York, NY

(16 – 32 hours per week)

Fraunces Tavern Museum preserves and interprets the history of the American Revolutionary era through public education, through the interpretation and preservation of the Museum’s collections, landmarked buildings, and varied public programs that serve the community. Housed in historic Fraunces Tavern, the permanent collections represent the material culture of 18th-century taverns and city life, artifacts from, and our collective memory of, the Revolution, and the history of the Sons of the Revolution in the State of New York.

The Museum is seeking an intern to aid with the documentation of and updating catalogue records for objects in the collections. This internship will provide exposure to the operations of a small museum collections department and the opportunity to gain experience in object research and handling.

Responsibilities:

The intern will report to the Collections Manager to research objects from the museum’s permanent collections, complete object records in PastPerfect, and publish online through the museum’s website and online collections database. Other responsibilities include gallery maintenance and object handling, packing, and cleaning.

The internship will take place from June through August 2024, with flexible start and end dates. Interns should be able to commit to a schedule of 2-4 days per week for the duration of the internship, days flexible. Our office hours are Monday-Friday, 9 am-5 pm.

Qualifications:

Currently enrolled in or recently graduated from relevant undergraduate or graduate level studies (history, museum studies, public history and archives, historic preservation, education, or similar)

Detail-oriented, patient, and organized

Excellent communication and writing skills

Proficiency in Microsoft Office

Familiarity with collections management software and Adobe Photoshop or similar image editing software a plus

Familiarity with Early American, Colonial American, and Revolutionary War history a plus

To apply, please email your cover letter and resume to collections@frauncestavernmuseum.org with “Summer Internship 2024” in the subject line. No phone calls, please.

Background concerning Sons of the Revolution in the State of New York and its Fraunces Tavern Museum

The Society of Sons of the RevolutionSM in the State of New York, Inc. has been instituted:

to perpetuate the memory of those who, in military, naval or civil service, by their acts or counsel, achieved American Independence;

to promote and assist in the proper celebration of the anniversaries of Washington’s Birthday, the Battles of Lexington and Bunker Hill, the Fourth of July, the Capitulations of Saratoga and Yorktown, the Evacuation of New York by the British Army, and other prominent events relating to or connected with the War of the Revolution;

to collect and secure for preservation the manuscript rolls, records and other documents relating to that War;

to inspire among the members and their descendants the patriotic spirit of their forefathers;

to inculcate in the community in general, sentiments of Nationality and respect for the principles for which the patriots of the Revolution contended;

to assist in the commemorative celebration of other great historical events of National importance;

to promote social intercourse and the feeling of fellowship among its members.

SRNY sponsors or participates in numerous patriotic, commemorative and/or historic events through the year. Since 1907, SRNY has furthered its mission by, among other activities, owning and operating Fraunces Tavern Museum, located at 54 Pearl Street in Lower Manhattan.

Members and supporters of SRNY and its Museum share a common interest in history and the purposes of SRNY and its Museum, but may hold a wide variety of views on contemporary political or social issues. The Constitution of SRNY provides that no question involving the party politics of the day shall be discussed or considered in any meeting, and both SRNY and its Museum are non-political and non-partisan. Accordingly, whatever the personal views of individual employees may be, staff members do not engage in contemporary political or social causes or activities in their capacities as employees of SRNY and its Museum.