The Thaumaturgical Sector (魔導区画) is the hidden core of Orchis Tower, consisting of the alchemical machines that make part of the Azure-Zero Project.

Trails to Azure[]

Background[]

The Thaumaturgical Sector's construction was masked within the overall construction of the Orchis Tower by the efforts of the Crois Family as part of their 1000 year project. It contains a mix of the most advanced orbal technology and alchemical science. The public was led to believe that the floors from 21 to 30 were empty and only present for structural purposes, with the elevator having restricted access.

The Sector was designed to draw and purify orbal energy from each of the main four Geofront sectors, which were similarly disguised as ventilation (A Sector), water processing(B Sector), incineration (C Sector) and car parking (D Sector) facilities for the city. Combined with the higher elemental energies from the Sun Fort, Moon Temple and Stargazer's Tower, the tower channeled this energy through the relays on the roof into KeA, situated in the Castle of Mirrors at Mishelam, forming the fourth point of the alchemical cross and ascending her to the Sept-Terrion of Zero.

After the Special Support Section deactivates the barrier surrounding the city and assaults the tower with the resistance, they take the elevator to the Thaumaturgical Sector, still channeling energies strong enough to drain the EP from their ENIGMAs. The SSS traverses the sector to make their way to the 30th floor terminal, where Jona Sacred and Chief Roberts helped them unlock the security doors to the higher floors. They also find the Eidolon Gear here, a prototype exoskeleton developed by the Epstein Foundation as a successor to the first Orbal Gear, before it was stolen by Mariabell Crois. Tio Plato is able to link with it and use it in their following battles.

At the roof of the tower, the SSS confronts Dieter Crois, who uses the energies of the tower to move to a Phase Space where he can pilot the Aion Type-α against them. The energies make the Aion nigh invincible, but F. Novartis disables the robot after the fight and forces Dieter to rematerialize, citing the contract Mariabell Crois signed in his behalf to recover the Aions for Ouroboros.

Maps[]

Enemies[]

Clay Doll

Frag Trooper

Divine Delf

Spiral Clotho

Titania W

Aion Type-α: Story

Treasure Chests[]

Key Contents Chest Quote 1 Burst Orb Treasua, as he looks at himself in the

mirror and unsheathes his dual brushes:

'...You're varnished.' 2 All sepith ×200 Zeit was going to be the CPD's new mascot, but they

wanted him to wear a hat and trenchcoat and say the

catchphrase, 'Take a Zeit out of crime.' 3 Tempest Gown I also received the gift of the Sept-Terrion.

There was a second item, but I used spatial

annihilation to keep you from getting it. 4 Celestial Balm EX If a music group were to perform in this tower,

would that make them an Orchistra? 5 Confuse 2 I challenged Father Kevin to an arm wrestling

contest, but he easily won. He must have the

strength of a Thousand Arms. 6 EP Charge III Now you must put something back.

Such is the law of equivalent exchange. 7 Red Keycard [52/61] And so she did while Cyril re-gathered the other

letters, giving her precious few minutes for the sheet of

ice within her to melt and join the rushing current.

Months of emotions had built into a sudden, colossal flood. 8 Akashic Gear WOOO! YEEEAAH...! W-Wait...

Why did only six people come

to MY unveiling ceremony? 9 Wind Gem Monsters: Divine Delf ×4, Titania W ×4 H-l- m-! I wand-r-d into th- light and this

ha---n-d. May I -l-as- borrow an -- Charg-?

Quests[]

Liberating Crossbell City: The SSS traverse the Thaumaturgical Sector after breaching Orchis Tower.

Trails of Cold Steel IV[]

Background[]

After the fallout of the Great Twilight and the events at the Gral of Erebos, a party consisting of Estelle and Joshua Bright, Renne, Lloyd Bannings, Elie MacDowell and KeA infiltrate the tower to find out what had happened in the Empire. They had traced some data that had been sent to the terminal (unknowingly by Black Alberich's request). The Sector was largely deactivated and navigating it was not difficult, although they still had to contend with some golems on the way, and fight off Mariabell Crois, Alberich and Claire Rieveldt at the terminal. After Renne and KeA successfully crack the five-dimensional spirit code they find out what happened, too late to stop it and the party flees to to the elevator.

In their efforts to hold the third Rivalry, Rean Schwarzer's party infiltrate the Thaumaturgical sector once again to reach the rooftop and disable the barrier generator. The Sector is now fully active, with barriers and lift terminals that need to be disabled or bypassed and large numbers of golems are present. Also defending the Sector are McBurn and a curse-driven Victor S. Arseid. Alberich also deployed a Leviathan unit as additional insurance.

Machias Regnitz notes that the tower is once again gathering mana from nearby areas and channeling it to power the Aions deployed by the Society. Randy Orlando additionally notes that the area is different from when he was here last during the independence.

Characters Playable Lloyd Bannings - Elie MacDowell - Tio Plato - Randy Orlando - Noel Seeker - Wazy Hemisphere - Rixia Mao - Alex Dudley - Arios MacLaine - Garcia Rossi Major Arianrhod - Campanella - Cecile Neues - Dieter Crois - F. Novartis - Fran Seeker - Grace Lynn - Guy Bannings - Henry MacDowell - Ian Grimwood - Jona Sacred - KeA - Mariabell Crois - Sergei Lou - Shirley Orlando - Shizuku MacLaine - Sigmund Orlando - Wald Wales - Zeit Minor Abbas - Bennet - Cao Lee - Chaco - Clarice Seeker - Colin Hayworth - Duke Cayenne - Ernest Reis - Estelle Bright - Garcia Rossi - Giliath Osborne - Harold Hayworth - Hartmann - Harvard Fisher - Ilya Platiere - Joerg Rosenberg - Joshua Bright - Julia Schwarz - Kate - Kevin Graham - Kilika Rouran - Klaudia von Auslese - Lau - Lechter Arundel - Marcel Nielsen - Michael Gideon - Michel - Mireille - Minneth - Mueller Vander - Olivert Reise Arnor - Oscar - Ozma Seeker - Renne Bright - Ries Argent - Roberts - Samuel Rocksmith - Shanshan - Sonya Baelz - Sophia Hayworth - Sully Atraid - Wendy - William Lakelord - Xin Lu Locations Crossbell Ancient Battlefield (Sun Fort) - Armorica Village - Bellguard Gate - Boathouse - Crossbell Cathedral - Crossbell Police Academy - East Crossbell Highway - Knox Forest - Knox Forest Road - Mainz (Mine - Old Mine) - Mainz Mountain Path - Mishelam (Mishelam Wonderland - Castle of Mirrors) - Moon Temple - Old Armorica Road - Rosenberg Studio - St. Ursula Medical College - Stargazer's Tower - Tangram Gate - Ursula Road - West Crossbell Highway - Wetlands - Azure Tree (Domain of Passion - Domain of Vanity - Domain of Fate - Domain of Penance - The Farthest End) - World of Zero/World of Ein Sof Crossbell City Administrative District (CPD) - Back Alley - Central Square (SSS - Times - Genten) - Downtown District - East Street - Entertainment District (Arc en Ciel) - Geofront (B Sector - C Sector - D Sector) - Harbor District (IBC - Heiyue - CNS) - Orchis Tower - Residential District - Station Street (Station) - West Street - Thaumaturgical Sector Erebonia Garrelia Fortress Calvard Altair (Altair Lodge) Gameplay Terminology Bracer Guild - Crossbell Times - Cryptid - D∴G Cult - ENIGMA - Heiyue - Holy Beast - Orbment - Ouroboros - Pleroma Grass - Red Constellation - Salt Pale - Sept-Terrion - Septian Church - Septium - Special Support Section - Stigma - Zemurian Ore - Zephyr Mechanics Action Time Battle - Battle Evaluation - Bonding (Details) - Burst - Combat Mechanics - Combat Orbment - Combo Craft - Craft - Fishing - Master Quartz - Orbal Art - Pom! Pom! Party! - Quartz - S-Craft - Status Effects - Support Craft - Clock Memories Lists Achievements - Armor - Books - Car Items - Chests - Crafts - Enemies - Fish - Fishing Equipment - Fishing Spots - Master Quartz - Orbal Arts - Quartz - Quests - Recipes - Rewards - Shops - Weapons - Trails in the Chest, Part 2 - Credits Illustrations Types Character Artwork - Concept Art - Official Artwork - Screenshots - Visuals Music Albums Original Sound Track - Evolution Original Soundtrack Songs "Aoi Kiseki" - "Aoki Negai" (EVO OP)