Cartoon: Flip Flap, 1948 – Noveltoons

“Flip Flap” is an American animated cartoon part of the series Noveltoons directed by Isadore Sparber, written by Bee Lewi, Mickey Klar Marks, Joe Stultz, and Larry Riley, and produced by Famous Studios. Only Noveltoon produced in Polacolor. Buy a subscription to watch this movie and hundreds more: Ready to watch? Click to start your free trial. Watch anywhere. Cancel… Read more →

Cartoon: Cheese Burglar, 1946 (Noveltoons)

“Cheese Burglar” is an American traditional animated short film part of the Noveltoons series directed by Isadore Sparber, written by Carl Meyer and Joe Stultz, and produced from Famous Studios. It stars Herman the Mouse. Buy a subscription to watch this movie and hundreds more: Ready to watch? Click to start your free trial. Watch anywhere. Cancel anytime. Free trial…. Read more →

Cartoon: Saved by the Bell, 1950 – Noveltoons

“Saved by the Bell” is an American animated cartoon part of the series Noveltoons directed by Seymour Kneitel, written by Larz Bourne, and produced by Famous Studios, featuring Herman the Mouse. Noveltoons is a series of cartoons produced by Paramount Pictures’ Famous Studios from 1943 to the end of the studio during 1967. Buy a subscription to watch this movie… Read more →

Cartoon: Noveltoons – Naughty but Mice, 1947

“Naughty but Mice” is a 1947 American traditional animated short film part of the Noveltoons series directed by Seymour Kneitel, written by Bill Turner and Larry Riley, and produced by Famous Studios. It was produced in Technicolor and released to theatres by Paramount Pictures on October 10, 1947. This stars Herman the Mouse. Buy a subscription to watch this movie… Read more →

Cartoon: The Bored Cuckoo, 1948 – Noveltoons

“The Bored Cuckoo” is an American animated cartoon part of the series Noveltoons directed by Bill Tytla, written by Bunny Gough, Bill Turner, and Larry Riley, and produced by Famous Studios. Noveltoons is a series of cartoons produced by Paramount Pictures’ Famous Studios from 1943 to the end of the studio during 1967. The series was known for bringing the… Read more →

Cartoon: Pleased to Eat You, 1950 – Noveltoons

“Pleased to Eat You” is an American animated cartoon part of the series Noveltoons directed by Isadore Sparber, written by Larz Bourne, and produced by Famous Studios, featuring The Hungry Lion. Noveltoons is a series of cartoons produced by Paramount Pictures’ Famous Studios from 1943 to the end of the studio during 1967. Buy a subscription to watch this movie… Read more →

Cartoon: Goofy Goofy Gander, 1950

“Goofy Goofy Gander” is an American animated short film part of the series Noveltoons directed by Bill Tytla, written by Isadore Klein, and produced by Famous Studios. It stars Little Audrey. Buy a subscription to watch this movie and hundreds more: Ready to watch? Click to start your free trial. Watch anywhere. Cancel anytime. Free trial. Free trial Monthly Subscription… Read more →

Cartoon: Ups an’ Downs Derby, 1950 – Noveltoons

“Ups an’ Downs Derby” is an American traditional animated short film part of the Noveltoons series directed by Seymour Kneitel, written by Carl Meyer and Jack Mercer, and produced from Famous Studios. It stars Lightning the Horse. Buy a subscription to watch this movie and hundreds more: Ready to watch? Click to start your free trial. Watch anywhere. Cancel anytime…. Read more →

Cartoon: Quack-a-Doodle-Doo, 1950 – Noveltoons

“Quack-a-Doodle-Doo” is an American animated cartoon part of the series Noveltoons directed by Isadore Sparber, written by Carl Meyer, Jack Mercer, and Martin Taras, and produced by Famous Studios, featuring Baby Huey. First appearance of Baby Huey. Buy a subscription to watch this movie and hundreds more: Ready to watch? Click to start your free trial. Watch anywhere. Cancel anytime…. Read more →