The Musician is a class in Guts & Blackpowder. It is one of the five Infantry classes that are available initially.

Overview[]

The Musician is a support-based class that can provide bonuses for other classes by playing their instrument. They are armed with a Fife and a Sabre.

The Musician can equip the Drum and the Bugle as their instrument after having purchased them from the Shop.

Piper[]

If the Musician is part of the 42nd Regiment of Foot, then they will instead receive the Bagpipes over the Fife. The Bagpipes will override only the Fife; Musicians of the regiment can still use the Drum and Bugle if either instrument is equipped.

Lute[]

If the Musician is part of the Armée Royale Française Regiment, then they will instead receive the Lute over the ?. The Lute will override only the ?; Musicians of the regiment can still use the ? & ? if either instrument is equipped.

Tips[]

Instruments affect a wide variety of tools, which makes them flexible in many scenarios. However, it is recommended to use different ones based on what will be more effective than others, such as the Bugle in later waves of Endless.

It is generally advised to stay near the frontline with the Drums or the Bugle and to stay near the back with the Fife or the Bagpipes.

Stay near a Sapper building their structures if possible. They will benefit from the bonus from each instrument besides the Bugle.

If needed, disregard playing the instrument and use the Sabre instead.

This does not apply with the Bugle, which has a one-time use active effect than a passive effect.

Trivia[]

The Musician was previously called "Fifer" but was changed after the addition of the Bagpipes to be more generalized.

If a Musician begins playing a Fife or Drum near another Musician already playing either of the two instruments, then the songs will automatically sync with each other. This effect will also ignore nation and regiment differences.

Switching nationalities, regiments, or both while alive as a Musician allows the player to play the given nation's songs on the Fife and the Drums regardless of their character's current nationality.