'Not involved': Julia Stiles has denied she is the third party in her co-stars' divorce

Julia Stiles has released a statement denying she is involved in the split of her Dexter co-stars Michael C Hall and Jennifer Carpenter.

The couple announced their plans to divorce in a statement this week, and the rumour mill was quickly buzzing with speculation that Hall had fallen for his onscreen love interest.

Stiles, 29, said in a statement today: 'I have absolutely nothing to do with the split between Michael and Jennifer.

'We are good friends and enjoyed working together. This is a personal matter between them, and we should respect their privacy.

The Bourne Ultimatum actress adds: 'Although I too prefer to keep my private life, private - I felt compelled to dispel the rumors I was somehow the cause for this matter.'

Celebrity website Hollyscoop claimed yesterday that sources on the set of Dexter have 'suspected something was going on' between Julia and 39-year-old Michael for some time.

A source told claimed that the actors 'have a lot of chemistry and seemed to be extra cosy with each other,' during filming.

Stiles, best known for starring in teen films Ten Things I Hate About You and Save The Last Dance, joined the series this season as Hall's love interest.

Online rumours claim that: 'Their chemistry was so crazy and so evident to everyone that writer and producers, seeing it play out on set, actually cranked up their sex scenes to capture it for show.'

Insiders allege that Hall and 32-year-old Carpenter have not been getting along well on the set for months.

Denials: Stiles, who plays Hall's onscreen love interest, said in a statement that she 'felt compelled to dispel the rumours' the pair were involved

Rumours: On set sources claimed the actors 'have great chemistry and seem to be extra cosy' during filming

They revealed in their statement on Monday that they had been separated for 'some time,' and were now divorcing.

'Having been separated for some time, Jennifer Carpenter and Michael C. Hall have filed for divorce,' their spokesman confirmed.

Hall was spotted having lunch with friends including Eric Dane this week as the news of his split was made public.

The actor's wedding ring was noticeably absent as he made his way to his car after dining out.

The couple play brother and sister Dexter and Deb Morgan on the hit Showtime series about a serial killer who only murders other killers.

They married on New Years Eve in 2008 after more than a year of dating.

The announcement comes just one day after Carpenter, 32, attended the fifth season finale party in New York without Hall, according to Access Hollywood.

Hall, who completed treatment for Hodgkin's lymphoma earlier this year, always maintained that the couple's personal relationship did not affect their work on set.

'We certainly pride ourselves in being professionals,' he told Us Weekly earlier this year.

'We work on the same show but we’re not in every scene together. We don’t see each other on set as often as you’d think.'

Dexter’s fifth season finale on Sunday night attracted 2.9 million viewers, making it the series’ highest rated season yet.

The show has averaged over five million viewers per week and has already been picked up for a sixth season.