Demi Moore will parade, in style, down the red carpet at the exclusive Hotel du Cap-Eden-Roc on May 23, during the 30th annual amFAR gala that serves to open the Cannes Film Festival.

She will do so in a triumphant return to the film industry, as 'godmother of Cannes' in recognition of the success she had in the 1980s and 1990s, but she also went through the hell of a long family tragedy that included addictions, broken families and two ex-husbands diagnosed with dementia.

At 61, Moore recently appeared in style at the Met Gala as well, showing off her statuesque body in a floral print dress and 'Queen of Hearts' design.

Demi confirmed that she maintains iron discipline with her exercise routine, the same one that catapulted her out of a broken family in Roswell, New Mexico and included saving her alcoholic mother from repeated suicide attempts, and losing her stepfather to suicide as a teenager.

The glory and hell of Demi Moore's career

For a while, Demi Moore was the highest-earning actress in Hollywood. But beyond her professional success, her story has become an inspiration for thousands of people who have had complicated childhoods.

After her big box office hits like 'Ghost', 'Indecent Proposal', 'A Few Good Men', 'Striptease' and 'Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle', Demi is currently single, after her most recent separation with New York restaurateur Daniel Humm, with whom she broke up in 2022, in addition to three other divorces: the first, from musician Freddy Moore, whom she married when she was just 18 and who died at age 72 in 2022 from Alzheimer's.

Now she has become a caregiver to her second husband, Bruce Willis, 69, even though at the height of his fame and during their marriage, he told Demi he wasn't sure he wanted to marry her.

In fact, Willis and his second wife, Emma Hemings, live with their two daughters near Demi in Hailey, Idaho, and have formed a blended family while caring for Bruce's frontotemporal dementia that has caused him to lose his memory.

Her third marriage, to actor Ashton Kutcher, was the most destructive to her career, as she has revealed that Kutcher encouraged her to drink again and convinced her to have threesomes, though he later settled down with actress Mila Kunis.

Early in her career Demi used alcohol and cocaine until director Joel Schumacher said he wouldn't cast her in 'St. Elmo's Fire' unless she got sober. She did so for 20 years, and relapsed when her marriage to Kutcher, much younger than her, collapsed due to his infidelities.

Moore was hospitalized in 2012 for an overdose and was separated from her three daughters, Rumer, Scout, and Tallulah, for several years, but the four have since reconciled and have been allowed to enjoy their first granddaughter, Louetta, who was born in April 2023 to Rumer and her partner, Derek Richard Thomas.

"Life certainly isn't a straight line and I think everyone here has had to deal with not feeling good enough at some point in their lives," she said in 2018 during an event for Peggy Albrecht Friendly House, a program that helps women with substance abuse issues.

"I know at a time of great struggle for me, I approached a wise teacher and expressed my fear that I wasn't good enough and she said, 'You will never be good enough, but you can know the value of your worth. Let go of the measuring stick,'" he noted.

Her youngest daughter, Tallulah Willis, who has spoken publicly about her own emotional struggles, said a few years ago, "I don't think my mother was raised. She was faked. And the strength that comes out of that is intimidating. It's scary."

Moore mentioned in her 2019 memoir, 'Inside Out,' that her long-suffering mother, Virginia Guynes, who died in 1998, may have set her up to be raped by her landlord when she was just 15, a secret Demi had kept for years.