Roc Nation, the US-based entertainment company founded by Shawn ‘Jay Z’ Carter has entered into a multi-year, worldwide partnership with Universal Music Group (UMG).

What does that mean, exactly? Effectively, the Roc Nation music label will now operate as a standalone label within the UMG family.

Financial terms of the deal were not disclosed. As part of the agreement, forthcoming albums from Jay Z, Rihanna and many others will be released through UMG worldwide.

Lucian Grainge, Chairman and CEO of UMG, said, “In just five years, Roc Nation has established itself as one of the most successful brands in music with a reputation for developing some of today¹s most influential and popular talent.

“Not only does this agreement provide a dynamic platform for Roc Nation’s exciting emerging artists, it extends our relationship with the extraordinary Rihanna and represents a homecoming for JAY Z—a brilliant artist and entrepreneur, who has been a creative cornerstone of our company.

“All of us at UMG are thrilled that JAY and Roc Nation chose UMG as their partners, knowing we will support their artists with a level of resources, expertise and passion that is simply unmatched in the industry.”

Shawn ‘Jay Z’ Carter said, “We are looking forward to working with Lucian and the incredible team he’s assembled at Universal. We would like to applaud Lucian for collaborating with us to strike a new age deal.

“This agreement presents a unique opportunity for Roc Nation’s artists—being able to continue to operate as an independent label with the strength, power and reach of the best major. I look forward to a long and prosperous collaboration with UMG. It feels good to be home.”

Founded in 2008, Roc Nation is a full-service entertainment company, inclusive of artist, songwriter, producer and engineer management; music publishing; touring & merchandising; film & television; new business ventures; and a music label.

It is home to a diverse roster comprised of critically acclaimed recording artists, writers and producers including Rihanna, Shakira, J Cole, Rita Ora, Calvin Harris, NO ID, Timbaland, Solange, M.I.A., Santigold, deadmau5, Wale, etc.

Roc Nation has partnerships with award winning production team Stargate in Star Roc as well as global management company, Three Six Zero.Music Business Worldwide