Jay Z’s Roc Nation label deal with Universal Music Group: A Prototype for most Indie record labels in Nigeria.

Bankole Welllington ( aka Banky W) last year on his Instagram handle clearly announced the closure of the record label division of his co-owned company (Empire Mate Entertainment). According to him, they were restructuring to focus more on talent management, advertising and event promotion.

This is not a new development as in recent times, most record labels in Nigeria have been passing through a lot of obstacles. These include financial burden,music publishing, distribution as well as having a fair deal in regard their relationship with their artistes.

The question becomes whether most Nigeria record labels can be categorically stated to be stable to act independently? ( this question is asked not oblivious to the existence of major record labels in Nigeria like Don Jazzy’s Mavin e.t.c). In my research based opinion, most record labels in Nigeria are not really meant to start initially independently but most go through the tutelage of top notch major record labels in the industry.

The question might now be the reason for this, and to state clearly, the merits can’t be overstated and they include saving them from facing early closure .

In the American entertainment industry, there exist key players in the music world vis-a-viz record labels like Universal Music Group, Sony Music Entertainment (Just as seen in Nigeria as stated earlier).

However, our focus would be on the Universal Music Group (Hereinafter referred to as UMG) which is one of the major labels and its agreement with an Indie record label called “Roc Nation”.

In 2013, UMG entered into a multi-year contractual agreement with a standalone record label called Roc Nation owned by Shawn “Jay Z” Carter. This label houses talents like Rihanna, Rita ora, J cole etc.

Based on the agreement, Roc Nation will operate as a standalone label within UMG family. This means that Roc Nation would not be seen as label owned by UMG but an independent label but would be assisted by UMG in certain factors like music publishing, distribution, streaming etc that may be beyond their financial capacity while they (i.e. Roc Nation) would focus on minor areas like talents management, contractual agreement with talents and promotions.

Now most people would think that Roc Nation emerged during this period but this is false because the record label has been in existence since 2008 and has entered into various agreements with major record labels since then, from a partnership with Live Entertainment Company, distribution deal with Sony Music in 2009, publishing deal with Warner/Chappell Music in 2013 and now a partnership with Universal Music.

There independent identity has not been taking from them and they are still making waves and a lot of money.

One of the necessities of this arrangement is that it allows the indie labels to utilize the large Human Resources at the disposal of the major labels to grow and stand before moving forward. So let’s see this as a kind of tutelage and in the contractual agreement there should be a time frame for this and the insertion of exclusivity clause to all masters of records released during the process in favour of the indie labels.

The question becomes what’s in for the major labels? This would be decided by both labels and I would like to advice that in as much as this is business, they shouldn’t forget the basic essence of their existence which is to promote talent development.

This is what most independent record labels in Nigeria need to expand into a formidable force and conquer the global entertainment world.

UBANI OBINNA…

Contact: Rootafricaent@gmail.com