Box of Hope

Twisted Pink has been shipping Boxes of Hope to people living with breast cancer since 2021 in collaboration with the United Breast Cancer Foundation.

Each Box is carefully packaged by volunteers and staff at Twisted Pink, many of whom are breast cancer survivors themselves. Each Box of Hope contains breast cancer facts, resources, health and beauty items, and gifts of comfort that will bring hope and provide support to people diagnosed with breast cancer.

If you are currently in active treatment for breast cancer, you may request a Box of Hope at no cost. We define active treatment as being diagnosed at any stage of breast cancer within the last 6 months, or within the first year of chemotherapy or radiation treatments. If you are living with stage IV (metastatic) breast cancer, we consider you in active treatment.

*Boxes are shipped within the USA only. We cannot ship to other countries at this time.

Please note: You will be asked to provide proof of diagnosis including date of diagnosis upon completion of this form. A box can only be shipped after we receive this documentation.

2023 Box of Hope Program

We thank the following organizations for granting funding to our 2023 Box of Hope Program.

Cralle Foundation

Delta Dental Foundation

Hillbillie Outfield Derby Party

The Lexington Cancer Foundation

Okolona Church of Christ

United Auto Workers Women's Committee of Local 862

United Breast Cancer Foundation

William K & Ann M Eckerd Foundation

Woman’s Club of Louisville

Words of Gratitude from Box of Hope Recipients

“Thank you for all the wonderful goodies! I really appreciate it. It was really fun to open and see all the fun things that were included.”

-Paige

What a box full of love and blessings I received today from United Breast Cancer Foundation and Twisted Pink. Thank you for your love and generosity. My heart is full!

— Teresa

“Just wanted to thank you so very much for the box that arrived today. I was amazed and delighted by the fantastic variety and quality of the contents. Going through this journey has been difficult. There are so many ups and downs but receiving that gorgeous gift today was such a wonderful up!! I will be happily using all the treats you've sent and think of Twisted Pink and UBCF with gratitude each day.”

— Patrice

“For a variety of reasons, I have struggled for the last several days, but the Box of Hope inspired me to get up, get showered and get 'ready' to face my day. The thought of trying out some 'new to me' cosmetic lines was so fantastically fun! And the socks! LOVE. THEM. I have been living with MBC for 3 years. My side effects and treatment strategy are keeping me stable for the time. Still, some days are harder than others emotionally and the box was just what I needed to remind myself I can (I must!) keep going.”

— Dru

“Dear friends, thank you so very much for sending me the Box of Hope. It means so much to me, especially after I feel so weak and drained today. With the advancement in research for metastatic breast cancer, I have a chance to live longer than I expected. You have really made me so happy. Thank you for all that you do.”

— Diana

Box of Hope Partnership

Twisted Pink has partnered with the United Breast Cancer Foundation (UBCF) to support breast cancer patients and survivors beginning in 2021 with our Box of Hope program. The support comes in the form of available resources and health & beauty products mailed as a “Hope Box” to breast cancer patients and survivors. Since 2021, over 4,000 Boxes of Hope have mailed to early and late-stage breast cancer patients across the United States and Canada. We anticipate mailing over 6,000 boxes in 2023.

“We are excited to partner with the United Breast Cancer Foundation to reach more individuals with a unique program to ship gifts of support to survivors and look forward to continuing this program in the months and years to come. We are grateful for UBCF’s ongoing partnership to help Twisted Pink in supporting individuals affected by a breast cancer diagnosis. It’s exciting to realize the potential number of individuals we could support throughout the country,” Caroline Johnson, Executive Director, Twisted Pink.

The United Breast Cancer Foundation has generously donated the gifts for the Hope Box program. The boxes are filled with health & beauty items to help survivors and patients enjoy these gifts following what are often expensive treatments for breast cancer. The box includes a variety of items such as jewelry, Savvy Minerals makeup, CBD lotion & oils, herbal tea & more. The retail value of the box is approximately $250.00 per recipient.