Silent Hill: Revelation, also known as Silent Hill: Revelation 3D, is a 2012 horror thriller film written and directed by M.J. Bassett. It was released on October 26, 2012 by Open Road Films.

As its alternate subtitle implies, the film was produced in 3D. Many theatrical showing of the movie were in 3D. The Blu-ray version was released in Blu-ray 3D, a usable feature with 3D-compatible televisions.

The film is a sequel to the first Silent Hill film and a loose adaptation of Silent Hill 3, which was developed by Team Silent and published by Konami. The film universe is separate from the game universe and is set in a separate canon continuity.

The film follows Heather Mason, a teenager searching for her adoptive father in Silent Hill, West Virginia. During her journey, she discovers the town's disturbing history, as well as her own.

Silent Hill: Relevation is the last installment in the original film timeline, as in 2022, a Reboot was announced and stalled other chances for sequels.

Plot[]

Note: Revelation is set in January 2011.

Spoiler warning: Plot and/or ending details follow.

The film opens with a nightmare; a teenage girl, Heather Mason, is running away from people in strange, ceremonial black cloaks in Lakeside Amusement Park. She then encounters a dark doppelgänger of herself who sets her on fire on a carousel. As she is engulfed in flames, she suddenly wakes up in a panic. Her father, Christopher Da Silva, comforts her, but is soon stabbed through the chest and killed by a monster with discs in its head, known as the Missionary. Heather then awakens again, and realizes that she was still dreaming. She has been suffering nightmares that have been growing increasingly intense.

The next morning, it is revealed that Heather is an older Sharon Da Silva, and that both Sharon and Chris have adopted new aliases: Harry and Heather Mason, in order to hide from the Order of Valtiel, the cult of Silent Hill, West Virginia. Chris has given Sharon strict orders to never visit Silent Hill. It is also revealed that Rose Da Silva is still trapped in Silent Hill, and in order to free her adopted daughter from the realm of the town, Rose located the Seal of Metatron — although in order to do so, she sacrificed herself. In doing this, Sharon lost many of her memories, including the events that transpired in the first film. Instead, in order to keep his adopted daughter safe and give her a normal life, Chris has told Sharon that Rose died in a car crash, and that her nightmares are simply dreams and not anything to worry about. It is the eve before Heather's eighteenth birthday, and Chris gives her a white vest as a present. Heather is slightly disturbed by it, considering it is identical to the vest she wore in her nightmare. The two embrace, and Heather leaves for her first day at a new school.

On the way to school, Heather has a vision of a homeless man turning into a monster and is startled. She is then confronted by a detective named Douglas Cartland who claims that she looks familiar. Heather refuses to speak with him. Heather learns she is not the only new student; Vincent Cooper is also new to the class. When asked to introduce herself, Heather is hesitant, and another student mocks her dress sense. She then reveals that she's been moving from town to town and school to school for the past 6 years, and advises them not to bother making friends as they clearly aren't "original thinkers" and she "sure as hell won't remember their names". However, Vincent manages to lighten the mood by joking that "How can I follow that?"

As she is walking to another class, Heather hallucinates a girl, Alessa Gillespie, being teased by her classmates. She then shortly enters the Otherworld version of the school and is approached by an armless monster. Heather is snapped out of the trance when she runs into Vincent Cooper, but she rebuffs his friendly advances.

Heather sees Douglas watching her as she leaves school and flees from him. She goes to Happy Burger in Central Square Shopping Center to meet safely with Chris, but he doesn't arrive and she becomes impatient. Heather has more hallucinations, including bloody clowns, children eating flesh burgers and a man being skinned alive to produce meat. Douglas catches up to Heather and tells her that the Order is looking for her, and that he wants to help her. He reveals that the reason why Heather has been moving so much is not because her father murdered someone years before, but because the man Chris killed in Portland was a member of the Order who was trying to abduct Heather. Before he can tell her anything else, the Missionary arrives and assaults them. They try to get away through the elevator, but Douglas is pulled away and killed by the Missionary.

Heather leaves the mall, which has become a crime scene due to Douglas's death, but she leaves her jacket behind, causing the police to suspect she was responsible for Douglas's murder. Heather walks home with Vincent, only to discover that Chris has been kidnapped and a note beckoning her to Silent Hill has been left on the wall in blood. Heather retrieves a box containing the Seal of Metatron from her father's bedroom, although it is missing its other half, along with various documents regarding the mythology of Silent Hill. Police arrive at Heather's door, believing that she was responsible for Douglas's murder. Despite Vincent not wanting her to go, he gives in and drives her to Silent Hill.

On the way to the town, Heather reads Chris's research on Silent Hill and the Order along with a personal note to her from her father, and learns that she is an incarnation of Alessa Gillespie, who was burned alive with the knowledge that she would survive the fire. The Order intended to use the hatred she formed from her pain to perform a ritual to impregnate her with their god, but Alessa proved more powerful than they had thought, and she instead split her soul and dragged the cult into an alternate reality.

Heather and Vincent rest at Jacks Inn, where Vincent reveals that he is worried for Heather. As Heather sleeps, she dreams of Alessa wreaking havoc throughout Silent Hill, turning residents into ash and making the world peel away beneath her feet. Heather awakens and is told by Vincent that he is a member of the Order who was born and raised in Silent Hill's alternate reality. Although Vincent was taught to hate Heather his entire life, he reveals that he has fallen in love with her in the few hours since he met her at the school. He warns her to stay away from Silent Hill, but Heather causes the inn to shift to the Otherworld due to her sudden shock and hatred towards Vincent and his lies. Vincent is then kidnapped by the Missionary and Heather is knocked unconscious. When she wakes, she finds herself in the Fog World.

She enters Silent Hill and meets Dahlia Gillespie, Alessa's mother. Dahlia tells Heather that she is the manifestation of the good side of Alessa's soul, and that Alessa's rage controls Silent Hill. Heather tries to get Dahlia to tell her where Christopher is, but the sirens that denote the Otherworld shift go off and Dahlia urges Heather to take shelter and run as the world peels away around them. She runs into a room filled with mannequins and watches in horror as a woman is transformed into a mannequin. Heather then meets Suki, a young woman who was dragged into the Otherworld when she got lost in Silent Hill. Heather tries to save Suki from a mannequin-like monster, but Suki is dragged away and killed.

Heather then goes to Brookhaven Asylum, where she meets Leonard Wolf, the grandfather of Vincent and the former leader of the Order. Leonard tells Heather that the Seal of Metatron reveals the "true nature of things" and that he has the other half, and shifts into a monster after shoving Heather's half of the Seal into his chest. Heather is able to remove the Seal from Leonard's body, killing him, and she goes to locate Vincent. Before finding him, she is attacked by prisoners in the asylum, but her yells for help bring the attention of Red Pyramid, who rushes to her aid and chops off the prisoners' arms. Heather then finds Vincent in a room full of demonic Dark Nurses, who have just finished killing two members of the Order. She saves him, under the condition that he helps her find Chris, and the two go to Lakeside Amusement Park to find Chris. Vincent notes that the Otherworld has lasted unusually long due to Heather's presence in Silent Hill.

At the park, Vincent kisses Heather and then distracts the Brethren, a sect of the Order, to allow Heather time to get away. Heather makes her way to the carousel, where fire ignites in a circle, killing dozens of cult members of both the Brethren and the Order that surround her. Red Pyramid spins the carousel and it descends into the sanctuary. As it descends, Heather meets Dark Alessa, the manifestation of the dark side of Alessa's soul. Dark Alessa morphs into an older version of herself; a ghostly version of Heather. She tells Heather that they are one and reveals herself to be a demon because she is the darkness of Alessa's soul. Heather and Alessa embrace in a "war of will-power," each pushing to overcome the other's will, but Heather finally "absorbs" her adversary, making herself a complete incarnation of Alessa and overcoming the darkness within her.

Heather finds the Sanctuary beneath the amusement park, and tries to free her father. There, she is confronted by Claudia Wolf, a priestess of the Order and the mother of Vincent. Heather gives Claudia the Seal of Metatron, recalling what Leonard told her about the object's power to expose one's true self. Claudia transforms into the Missionary — at this point, it becomes clear that Claudia was the being who murdered Douglas and kidnapped Vincent in Jacks Inn. When Claudia attacks Heather, Red Pyramid, as Alessa's "guardian and executioner," goes to Heather's defense. As the two monsters brawl, Heather frees Vincent and Chris. Although Red Pyramid gets injured, he succeeds in killing Claudia. Vincent, Chris, and Heather escape.

Upon returning to the entrance of Silent Hill, Vincent notices that the ashes have stopped falling, and Heather speculates that things will change, though Chris corrects her, claiming that it is still a town of lost souls. Chris, Vincent and Heather prepare to leave Silent Hill, but Chris stops and turns back, saying that he must find Rose. He then disappears into the fog which disappears along with him, and Heather and Vincent return to reality. They hitchhike with a truck driver named Travis Grady, who tells them he has not been this way in a long time, and they drive away free.

However, only moments later, a police escort and a prison bus come around the corner and even as it passes the welcome sign, and a thick fog clouds the road.

Continuity errors and retcons[]

Despite claims to the contrary made by writer/director M.J. Bassett, Silent Hill: Revelation has been noted as exhibiting multiple retcons and continuity mistakes in relation to the original Silent Hill. Many of these errors occurred due to Bassett trying to force the film series to more closely match the canon of the games, while others seem to have no real reason for being there. However, Bassett stated multiple times before the film's release that it would not change anything in the first film's continuity, and would be a "sequel first, adaptation second".[1][2]

Bassett made several statements to the series' fans before the release of Revelation that later were discovered to be untruthful. In one instance, she claimed there would be no retcons between the two films, despite a version of the script from months before he made that statement showing that almost the entire continuity of the first film had been changed. In another, she stated on her blog that the Order and the Brethren were two separate cults, which was proven incorrect in the final film. She also repeatedly stated that she would be changing things from the game to match the film's canon, calling Revelation a "sequel first, adaptation second".[2] However, Revelation changes much of the continuity of the first film in favor of moving the canon towards that of the game series. Similarly, Bassett denied that Vincent was Heather's boyfriend when asked about it, saying that is the wrong term for them.[2] However, she refers to Vincent as her boyfriend in the DVD commentary and the two kiss in the final film. Bassett's motives for making these statements are currently unknown.

The cult shown in Revelation, despite being stated to be the same cult as in the first film, has an entirely different set of beliefs that is almost completely opposite to that of the original cult. The first film shows that Alessa Gillespie was burned alive as a witch, due to the cult believing that she was "sin incarnate" due to her being born out of wedlock. Revelation, however, states that the cult burned Alessa so they could perform a ritual to impregnate her with a physical incarnation of their god, knowing that she would survive the fire. Initially, Bassett claimed on her blog that the Order (the cult seen in Revelation) and the Brethren (the name given to the first film's cult) were two separate cults, however, this is contradicted by Vincent's statement in Revelation that the Brethren are the most fanatical members of the Order.[2] Similarly, the religious symbol of the cult is changed dramatically between the two films, to the point of being unrecognizable.

At the end of the original Silent Hill, Sharon and Dark Alessa recombine to become a complete incarnation of Alessa, containing all parts of Alessa's personality and powers. This complete version of Alessa is the child Rose takes home with her, thinking she is Sharon. In Revelation, Alessa's multiple incarnations are still separate, and Sharon is shown to still be only the good side of Alessa, with Dark Alessa existing in a separate body.

Dark Alessa states that Sharon was created so that Alessa could be free of Silent Hill, and could learn to feel love. However, this is contradicted by Alessa's blatant usage of Sharon as a pawn in the first film. Had Alessa created Sharon to keep her from the town, the first film's events would not have happened, as Alessa would never have called her to the town at all.

In Revelation, Claudia Wolf claims to be the sister of Christabella, the main antagonist of the first film. In the canon of Silent Hill, Christabella is the sister of Dahlia, and thus the aunt of Alessa. This makes Heather and Vincent cousins, something that would not have been intentionally added if the sister relationship from the first film was meant to be part of Revelation's canon.

The retcon involving Dahlia's and Christabella's sisterhood may be related to another continuity change, in which Sharon is stated to be an orphaned baby that was infused with Alessa's soul. The script sheds further light on this, depicting a flashback sequence in which Lisa Garland hands Alessa a baby kidnapped from its parents, into which Alessa puts the good side of her soul. In the first film, Sharon is no one's child, having been willed into existence by Alessa's powers, just as Dark Alessa was willed into existence.

The sound of the siren is altered between films, to make Revelation's siren sound more like that of the games.

Dark Alessa's physical appearance is changed, going from a bloodied face with black smears on her skin and normal eyes to a clean face and black eyes.

Sharon's age at the time of the first film's events is changed from 9 to 11. Similarly, Alessa's age at the time of her burning is also changed from 9 to 11.

Vincent claims in Revelation that the Brethren wear gas masks and miner suits because they believe they will become "corrupted by the darkness" if they don't. In the first film, the mining suits and gas masks are shown to act as a deterrent to attacking monsters in the Otherworld, and the cult's priestess, as well as several other members of the cult, are shown leaving the church without any mining gear.

In the first film, Dark Alessa states that she brought Rose to the town because "this dream of life must end, and so too must the dreamers within it", and that it is "the end of days", making it clear that she wants to use Rose to kill the last remaining members of the cult. In Revelation, there is still a large group of cultists living in the Otherworld, who are even seen walking about town and leaving their mentally ill in the asylum. It is not possible that Alessa would not have known of their existence, and this makes the entirety of the first film meaningless.

It is shown in the original Silent Hill that there are three versions of Alessa: a badly burned adult woman, a child containing her good side (Sharon), and a child containing her dark side (Dark Alessa). Revelation makes no reference to Alessa's adult form at all, and strongly implies that Dark Alessa is the one controlling everything in the town, leading to the implication that Alessa's adult form may not exist in the second film's canon. The script furthers this theory, showing Alessa's physical body becoming Dark Alessa during the fire, as well as several scenes of Dark Alessa shifting into Alessa's burned form.

Although being the same age as Heather/Sharon during the shooting of Revelation, actress Jodelle Ferland, who portrayed Sharon, Alessa and Dark Alessa in Silent Hill, was never contacted to reprise her role as Sharon, due to Bassett wanting the older version of Sharon to look more like her game counterpart, and less like the first film's version of her. Because of this, Sharon's teenage version bears very little facial resemblance to her child appearance.

In the first film, the fire that destroyed the town was caused when the pit of burning coals that was used to burn Alessa overturned, burning through the floor of the church and into the coal mines beneath the town. However, Revelation states that Alessa created the fire with her rage after the burning.

Silent Hill: Revelation character Suki claims that she became entrapped in the Otherworld after getting lost in Silent Hill, suggesting that any person can become entrenched in the alternate reality. This directly conflicts with Dahlia's statement in the original film that only Alessa can "open and close the door" to Silent Hill. Given that there is no evidence Alessa knew Suki, there would be no reason at all for her to have brought her into her world.

In the first film, the Welcome Sign is on the right side of the road. In Revelation, it's on the left, although it's possible that it's a different entrance to the town.

Retcons in deleted content[]

In the script for Revelation, Alessa is shown to have been burned alive in her own house, while Dahlia stands outside and cries. In the first film, Alessa was burned alive in a Sacrificial Chamber located within the Grand Hotel, and Dahlia was not present, as she had fled the hotel to call the police. Further, Alessa is shown pounding on the window of her house as the fire creeps towards her, however, this would have been impossible in the first film's canon, given that she was shackled onto an iron seal and laid directly over a bed of burning coals. This retcon removes Thomas Gucci from the film canon entirely, and strongly suggests that he is replaced by Travis Grady, whose comment about being in the town earlier was linked to his role in Alessa's story. This would mimic Travis's role as Alessa's savior in Silent Hill: Origins.

The script shows that Alessa created the Otherworld by morphing into Dark Alessa during the burning in her house. In the first film, Alessa was removed from the hotel fire after accidentally knocking over the pit of coals, and created Dark Alessa in the hospital several hours later.

In a deleted scene, one of the teachers at Alessa's school is shown to be a nun. The first film reveals that the teachers at Alessa's school wore purple outfits with white collars and cuffs similar to the childrens' uniforms, and the school was run by the local cult, who were not Christian and wouldn't allow someone of a different religion to teach there.

Dahlia tells young Alessa that the cult has been planning to perform a ritual on her ever since her birth in the script for Revelation. This contradicts Dahlia's complete lack of knowledge about what the cult wanted to do to Alessa in the first film, as well as tying in to another retcon, in which Alessa was used for an impregnation ritual, rather than being burned alive as a witch.

Deleted content[]

A few scenes were shot that never made it into the final film. These include a scene of:

Harry/Chris looking for work on an online job agency site, but there are no decent ones available.

In the high school, a nun slaps Heather and calls her "Alessa".

Vincent and Heather talking as they enter the bus.

In Silent Hill, a member of the Brethren attacks Heather.

Rose briefly appearing to Heather in an elevator. However, the Missionary disrupts them.

Heather using a map to find Brookhaven Asylum.

A leaked version of the script shows even more new scenes, including:

The Janitor in the first film making an appearance at Heather's school.

Alessa being burned alive in her house as Dahlia cries outside.

When Heather returns home, Harry dies, killed by the Order. However, he is apparently "revived" in the Otherworld like a ghost, while dead in the real world.

Detective Santini being killed when the Otherworld takes over a morgue.

In Jacks Inn, it is implied Heather and Vincent have sex.

In this version of the script, the Missionary is simply the Order's "assassin", rather than being the true form of Claudia Wolf, and is male instead of female. This script also replaces Christabella's role in the first film with that of Claudia and Leonard, who are shown to instead be the instigators of Alessa's burning, while Christabella is never mentioned at all. Other notable additions are that Heather chases Alessa at several points, and that Dahlia's dead body is found on the streets of Silent Hill in the final scene. Additionally, Red Pyramid was meant to dissolve into wisps of smoke after Heather tells him that he’s “free.”

The mannequin storeroom scene is also earlier, occurring immediately after Douglas is killed by the Missionary. This makes more sense because the mannequin storeroom is in the mall. The Mannequin Girl is the same girl who teased Heather for her unfashionable clothing. The final version loses this irony.

Development[]

Absence of Christophe Gans and Roger Avary[]

In December 2006, Silent Hill writer/director Christophe Gans announced that Sony had officially ordered another installment in the Silent Hill film series. Gans stated that he would like to return to the franchise, if his commitment to Onimusha did not bar him from participating. Gans also confirmed that Roger Avary would be back to write the script.[3]

In 2007, producer Don Carmody stated that a screenplay was slowly being developed and that "[Gans is] involved pretty heavily in another project right now" and would likely not return as director.[4] As well, Avary said that he would not be returning to collaborate on the next film on the account that Gans would not be returning, either.[5]

In September 2009, Sony Pictures announced that Roger Avary and producer Samuel Hadida were officially signed on the project and that filming would begin in 2010. Hadida stated that production would begin upon completion of Resident Evil: Afterlife.[6] However, later that month, Roger Avary was sentenced to a 1-year jail term for vehicular manslaughter, and was unable to participate in the film's production.[7]

In November 2009, Don Carmody told Shock Till You Drop that Christophe Gans was unlikely to return for the sequel, and that they were going to make the sequel "more accessible to a wider audience". Carmody stated that the film would feature a character from the first movie who is now older, implying that Sharon Da Silva or Alessa Gillespie would be returning,[8] although actress Jodelle Ferland announced that she had not been contacted for the role.[9]

In August 2010, Carmody said the sequel had "stalled" due to Avary's imprisonment, but that he still wanted to be involved with the film and had a basic outline for it.[10]

Production[]

In November 2010, it was announced that Lions Gate had begun pre-sales on the next installment and that M.J. Bassett would direct the film, titled Silent Hill: Revelation 3D.[11] Bassett revealed she had written her own screenplay, replacing Roger Avary. She added that she would bring back as many of the core creative team as she could from the first film to keep its look and feel, but add "more darkness and fear into the mix as well".[12]

Before filming began, Bassett was open to suggestions in casting the woman to play Heather, allowing fans to post the names of actresses on her blog that they believed could play her, provided that the actress could realistically portray an eighteen-year-old and had experience in other films.[13] Adelaide Clemens was eventually chosen for the role of Heather, though no one had suggested her. Bassett made another post asking for suggestions for Claudia's actress and some fans suggested Donna Burke, but Bassett was disappointed by the suggestions, feeling it was not a "very imaginative selection", and removed the post.[14]

In March 2011, the production team began filming in Cambridge, Ontario, Canada.[15] Production was delayed when a freak snowstorm hit the set in Cambridge on March 23, 2011.[16]

On May 15th, 2011, Bassett announced that filming had ended and was in post-production.[17] It was eventually announced that the film would be released on October 26, 2012 by Open Road Films.[18]

On July 14th, 2012, M.J. Bassett appeared at San Diego Comic-Con. She showed two clips from the movie. The first was a short clip showing the Mannequin Monster, and the second showed Vincent tied to an operating table surrounded by Nurses.[19] A movie trailer was released later that month, and from then on, more TV spots, posters and promotional stills were released in anticipation of the film.

Direction[]

Bassett has stated that while Silent Hill 3 would be the best game of choice to adapt from, it is a sequel to the first film first and foremost, and still needed to make sense with what the first film had established, such as the mythology and relations between characters. People who watched the film expecting "Silent Hill 3: The Movie" would be disappointed in that it differed from the game in many places, as it took different directions in many areas. The film was supposed to be a sequel to the first film that used Silent Hill 3 as groundwork.[citation needed]

Despite this, there were supposed to be many nods to the games that only gamers would catch, and the way many scenes were shot in the film were supposed to reminiscent of Silent Hill 3.[citation needed] An example of this is how the filmography is shot during the carousel scene.

Kit Harington acknowledged Vincent's character had been changed from the game version in order to give some leeway as a support character for Heather. Heather was somewhat less of a "smartass" to give her a more realistic personality.[citation needed] Bassett was interested in a character who shows "some genuine human responses to the terrible things she experiences."[2]

In an interview years after the release of Revelation, Bassett spoke about her feelings towards the film. She said it felt more like a collaboration and didn't have complete control, but since she wrote and directed it, admits many aspects of its failings are also hers. She felt like she had to satisfy either the gamers or the audience and that it felt impossible to do both. She said shooting in 3D was a pain, and felt obligated to claim it was a great movie for the press, but in the back of her mind, she didn't wholeheartedly agree. She wished she stood up for her vision of the movie and for the fans, and for a more personal, tense, sexual, and less accessible for non-fans. She regretted trying to tie the game and film canons together, as it created contradictions and retcons. She apologized, saying she was very sorry to everyone who did not like the movie.[1]

Reception[]

Silent Hill: Revelation 3D opened at #5 in the box office on its opening weekend, taking in an opening gross of $8 million and has since grossed over $52 million as of March 27, 2013.[20]

The film was not released in advance to critics. It holds a 10% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on a 60 review consensus, stating: "Featuring weak characters, an incomprehensible plot, and a decided shortage of scares, Silent Hill: Revelation 3D is a mediocre effort even by the standards of video game adaptations."[21] By the end of 2012, Revelation appeared on many "Worst of 2012" lists, and is the 6th worst reviewed film of the year on Rotten Tomatoes.

Non-critics enjoyed the film more, giving the film a mixed reception instead of a negative reception, with a 5.4/10 user score on Rotten Tomatoes and 5/10 on IMDb.[2] The film's Metascore is 15/100, and the user score is 5.1/10.[3]

Many reviewers commented on the staggering number of retcons Revelation featured, including Truly Disturbing, which noted: "It's supposed to be a sequel to the first film, but it retcons most of the story and character motivations that were established in it".[22] Dan Moat of ThreeMenandaSite.com notes: "While a direct sequel in terms of its own canonicity, the film itself is more of a retcon piece as an attempt by writer/director [M.J.] Bassett to make the franchise more accessible to general horror fans, a decision which leads to a rather iffy cinematic experience", and even includes a section labeled "Continuity, Where Art Thou?".[23]

Future[]

On the subject of a potential third film, Bassett stated that she would prefer to explore the backstory of the town itself instead of adapting another game, and delve into some of the series' darker themes and sexual imagery. She suggested adapting stories from the graphic novels, such as Past Life.[24]

On January 31, 2020, Christophe Gans expressed an interest in making another Silent Hill movie, stating that he was writing a screenplay with the involvement of Revelation producer Victor Hadida. "The project will always be anchored in this atmosphere of a small American town, ravaged by Puritanism," Gans stated. "I think it's time to make a new one."[25]

In June 2022, he revealed that he had finished writing the script while isolated during the COVID-19 pandemic and that it was eyeing a 2023 release. He stated that his sensibilities had evolved since 2006 and that the film would serve as a reboot; a "Silent Hill of the year 2023": "For me, it was important to design a Silent Hill in the light of the current public. It is clear that today's horror cinema no longer resembles the horror cinema of 2006. I'm trying to take into account what I've been able to see recently, which is more original and more surprising in terms of horror films, and to see if in Silent Hill there are the seeds, or even the expression of that."[26]

Cast[]

Adelaide Clemens - Heather Mason / Dark Alessa

Kit Harington - Vincent Cooper

Radha Mitchell - Rose Da Silva

Sean Bean - Christopher Da Silva

Deborah Kara Unger - Dahlia Gillespie

Carrie-Anne Moss- Claudia Wolf

Malcolm McDowell - Leonard Wolf

Erin Pitt - Sharon Da Silva (young) / Alessa Gillespie

Martin Donovan - Douglas Cartland

Heather Marks - Suki

Peter Outerbridge - Travis Grady

Roberto Campanella - Red Pyramid

Rachel Sellan - Mannequin Girl

James Kirchner - Lobotomy

Jefferson Brown - Detective Santini

Liise Keeling - Missionary

Michael Cota (uncredited) - Armless Man

Anna Cyzon - Dark Nurse

Shara Kim- Dark Nurse

Jordan Harris - Dark Nurse

Jordan Clark - Robbie the Rabbit

Music[]

Main article: Silent Hill: Revelation Original Soundtrack

Jeff Danna, composer of both movie's soundtracks, mentioned that the score for Revelation is a combination of Akira Yamaoka's music and his own. There are 3 new songs composed by Akira, as well as new songs by Danna. Some of Akira's older work also appears. Mary Elizabeth McGlynn sang the credits song "Silent Scream". The Japanese theme song is "Claymore" by Gackt.

The soundtrack was released on October 30th, 2012, by Lakeshore Records, and is 1:05:24 long.

Trivia[]

In 2006, Christophe Gans erroneously said that the sequel to his film would be co-written by Roger Avary and famed author Neil Gaiman.[27] Gaiman himself rebutted this, stating that "I did Internet Cafe my way online yesterday I discovered pretty much all of my FAQ messages were people asking whether I was really going to be writing the Silent Hill sequel with Roger Avary. I'm afraid that I don't think I am -- I mean, it's the first thing I've ever heard of it, and I'm sure that if they make a sequel Roger would want to write it himself. I am writing Black Hole with Roger (we're one draft in right now), and we already wrote next year's Beowulf. If I get home to find an invitation to write Silent Hill 2 with Roger is waiting for me I'll let you all know, but for right now I think it's a discredited internet rumour."[28]

Masahiro Ito, who did art design, creature design, and lore for the first three Silent Hill games, stated on Twitter[29] that he had been contacted for work on the film, but that he turned it down due to being busy. When Bassett was asked about this, she stated that she hadn't commissioned Ito, and surmised it was likely for an earlier incarnation of the film.[30]

Konami's marketing for the film in Japan included a special ramen.[4]

There were hundreds of Robbie the Rabbit dolls used on the set of Lakeside Amusement Park.[citation needed]

Sean Bean's character is killed in Silent Hill: Revelation, albeit only in a nightmare and not in reality. Sean Bean is known for having his character commonly die in films.[31]

When Heather is at the mall, it is daytime, as evident by the light from the windows. However, despite only being in the mall for a few minutes, when Heather exits, it is suddenly nighttime.

For the scene of the goldfish "dying", the crew placed the fish in specially prepared water that would cause the animals to fall asleep, creating the appearance of a dying animal without actually causing it any harm.[32]

Kit Harington stated that he tried to play the Silent Hill games for research but quit because they were too scary for him. However, he also added that he didn't need to play the games, as his character bears very little relation to his game counterpart.[33]

All the monsters on the film, with the exception of the Mannequin Monster, were practical effects done on the set, although some minor CGI elements were used on some creatures.[34]

Game references[]

One poster for Revelation shows Heather in a wheelchair being pulled by a nurse, which is identical to one of Heather's artworks for Silent Hill 3.

In the original artwork, the Nurse pushing Heather Mason in a wheelchair was meant to symbolize Alessa Gillespie and Lisa Garland.[35]

Locations from the games that make appearances on the movie set include Good Ol' Days, Green Lion Antiques, Andy's Books, Pete's Bowl-O-Rama, Happy Burger, Lakeside Amusement Park, Central Square Shopping Center, and Jacks Inn.

Although not necessarily a game reference, Heather has miniature cats on the shelf in her room.

One of the false names Heather used was "Mary", something that was likely an allusion to Mary Shepherd-Sunderland or perhaps series singer Mary Elizabeth McGlynn.

At Heather's high school, during biology class, there are diagrams of butterflies. In the game series, butterflies are used as a symbol of rebirth and transformation: the two examples being Alessa Gillespie and Heather, and Mary and Maria (Maria has a butterfly tattoo). There are also posters of a face with a butterfly over the mouth for a school-related function; this might be an allusion to the poster for The Silence of the Lambs, a series to which there are numerous references in the games.

Similar to the game, Heather's last words to Harry during their phone conversation are "I love you."

In the mall, Heather uses an iconic pipe for self-defense against Douglas.

During the car ride, when Heather flips through Chris's notebook, there is a sketch of a Mumbler.

In Jacks Inn, a red shoe can be seen. This could be a reference to the item Heather finds in-game, or Lisa Garland. Also, "106" is seen when Heather exits the inn. 106 is the room in Silent Hill 3 where Heather stays upon arriving in the town.

Right after Heather enters Silent Hill's Otherworld, there is a table. It has a barbecued dog, which is a reference to the one seen in a Chinese restaurant in the game. It also has a birthday cake that is ornamented by an upright Robbie figure, and the bench she passes only moments afterwards is taken up by the stuffed head of the rabbit.

The mannequin sequence is a throwback to the mannequin room in Silent Hill 3, in which Heather is frightened by a decapitated, bloodied mannequin head.

In Brookhaven Asylum, the map is identical to that of Brookhaven Hospital in the game. Room S12 is the room in Silent Hill 3 where Leonard telephones Heather.

The words "Flame Purifies All" can be seen on a wall as Heather enters Brookhaven Asylum. This is a reference to the picture of the same name in Silent Hill 3.

In the scene where Vincent is strapped onto a gurney and is surrounded by nurses, an X-ray of the Missionary can be seen, as well as a scan of the hand of the monster version of Leonard. This is similar to Silent Hill: Homecoming, where an X-ray foreshadows the death of Margaret Holloway.

During the carousel scene, the carousel descends in the same fashion in which it did in the game. Afterwards, Heather enters a long, narrow underpass to the "sanctuary", similar to the game.

The ending of the film leaves Chris behind in Silent Hill to search for his wife, an obvious allusion to James Sunderland in Silent Hill 2.

There are two references made to previous games in the ending scene. The first is a cameo appearance by Travis Grady, the protagonist of Silent Hill: Origins. A police convoy then drives into Silent Hill, including the prison bus which carried Murphy Pendleton in Silent Hill: Downpour.

[]

Set photos

Original script

See also[]

Timeline of the Silent Hill films

Silent Hill: Revelation (novel)

References[]

Videos[]

Gallery[]

Screenshots[]

Posters[]