FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

SARASOTA, Fla. - March 2, 2005 - Infinium Labs (OTC BB: IFLB) will present its flagship Phantom Game ServiceTM, built on Microsoft Windows XP Embedded, in the Microsoft booth No. 1602 in San Francisco's Moscone Center during CMP Media's Embedded Systems Conference (ESC), Sunday to Thursday, March 6 - 10, 2005.

The ESC demonstration follows the highly successful presentation of Infinium's Phantom Game Service at the Microsoft Windows Embedded Device Showcase exhibit during the recent Consumer Electronics Show in January in Las Vegas.

"We are pleased to showcase the Phantom Game Service at ESC as an innovative example of how Windows XP Embedded can create a custom product solution and enable new services," said Jane Gilson, director, Mobile and Embedded Devices Division at Microsoft Corp. "Windows XP Embedded provides a familiar and flexible development environment and feature set Infinium utilized to deliver a compelling home entertainment application."

Windows XP Embedded provides the functionality and performance of the Windows operating system in componentized form; enabling device-makers to rapidly build reliable devices that can adapt and enrich computer and Internet-based digital media. The Phantom Game Service will be delivered over broadband to a Windows XP Embedded-based receiver that sits in the living room.

"The Phantom Game Service was built using Windows XP Embedded to deliver stability, reliability and a custom user interface," Kevin Bachus, president and COO, Infinium Labs, said. "But more importantly, by developing with Windows XP Embedded, consumers will have access to the widest possible selection of game titles and the highest quality game experience."

"From the European perspective the standard and familiar XP embedded platform will be a great boost to content providers and publishers who'll be able to use Phantom's superior gaming environment and fantastic game-play to tap into new markets both across Europe and Globally," said Greg Koler head of operations for Infinium Labs Europe. "According to the DSL Forum Q3 2004, The European Union countries currently make up the largest regional DSL population worldwide, with a total of 26.5 million subscribers. This compares to Asia Pacific with 24.1 million and North America with 15.1 million. By the end of Q-1 2005, DSL subscribers will have passed the 100 million milestone and that puts the potential of Phantom into context as a new sales channel when the Phantom service comes to Europe" adds Greg Koler.

Infinium has announced that nearly two dozen leading game providers have committed to provide content for the Phantom Game Service, including Atari, Codemasters, Eidos, Vivendi Universal and many more. The company has announced it will launch the service in 2005.

About Infinium Labs

Based in Sarasota, Fla., Infinium Labs (OTC BB: IFLB) is in development on the Phantom Game Service, the first end-to-end, on-demand game service. Delivered over broadband, the Phantom Game Service will offer casual and avid gamers a broad library of titles, available anytime, day or night, from the comfort of their living room.

Infinium Labs is led by a management team with extensive experience in interactive media, entertainment, broadband services, technology and video games. For more information, please visit www.phantom.net.

Safe Harbor Statement

Certain statements included in this press release may constitute forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from such statements expressed or implied herein as a result of a variety of factors including, but not limited to: the development of the Infinium Labs technology, the successful marketing and distribution of the Phantom Gaming System, acceptance by the market of Infinium Labs, products and technology, competition and timing of projects and trends in the gaming industry, as well as other factors expressed from time to time in filings Infinium Labs will make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). As a result, this press release should be read in conjunction with periodic filings Infinium Labs makes with the SEC. The forward looking statements contained herein are made only as of the date of this press release, and Infinium Labs undertakes no obligation to publicly update such forward looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.

Media Contact for Infinium Labs:

Andrew Ball

Anderson Baillie

+44 (0)1925 21725

andrewball@andersonbaillie.com

Investor Contact:

James Roberts

Infinium Labs

(941) 917-0788, ext. 222

jroberts@phantom.net

*Other product or service names mentioned herein are the trademarks of their respective owners.