An investigation into the fatal shooting and stabbing of 17-year-old Tyler McDermott and the attempted murder of another male has concluded with four men convicted for their involvement.

Detectives worked around the clock following the incident outside a music studio in Norman Road, Tottenham, to identify the suspects involved in the attack. This complex investigation included pain-staking analysis of hundreds of hours of CCTV footage to bring those involved to justice.

Detective Sergeant, Devan Taylor, in charge of the murder investigation, said: “My thoughts remain with Tyler’s family who have remained dignified. I commend them for the way they have carried themselves during these extremely difficult few months of the trial.

“Tyler was a son, a brother and a nephew, and losing him has absolutely devastated his family. I sincerely hope these convictions will help provide them with some closure. No family should ever have to suffer the loss of a loved one.

“I am grateful to the jury for the care and attention they have shown throughout what has been an exceptionally long and complex murder trial.

“This is a very sad incident that tragically led to the an innocent young life being lost to a cold and senseless killing. These young men had a choice that night and for reasons only known to them, they chose to resort to violence.”

Tyler McDermott and his friend left a music recording studio when he was shot and then stabbed by a group of men. At court, the prosecution case was that tensions began to arise after one of the defendants involved in the case became upset at being filmed inside the studio. This resulted in a confrontation outside the studio and led to Tyler’s murder.

Tyrese Barnett, 20 (24.02.04) of Moyers Road, Stratford and Leo Reid, 20 (05.10.03) of Tulse Hill, Brixton were both found guilty of Tyler’s murder following a three month trial at the Old Bailey that concluded on Wednesday, 19 June.

Barnett was also found guilty of attempted murder in relation to Tyler’s friend and possessing a firearm with intent to endanger life.

Reid also previously pleaded guilty to possessing an offensive weapon in a public place.

Two other people have also been convicted for their involvement in Tyler’s murder.

The court heard that in the early hours of the morning of Thursday, 13 April, police were called to reports of a male injured on Norman Road, N15. When officers attended, they found 17-year-old Tyler suffering from gunshot and stab wound injuries.

Tyler was taken to hospital for treatment, having sustained life-threatening injuries. On the afternoon of Friday, 14 April, he sadly died as a result of these injuries and a murder investigation was launched by detectives from the Specialist Crime Command.

Working around the clock to establish the circumstances of the tragic incident, detectives discovered that Barnett shot Tyler and Reid stuck him with a large machete when he was already laying on the floor with gunshot injuries.

The jury also heard that Barnett had discharged the firearm a second time while aiming the gun at Tyler’s friend. Fortunately, he missed and Tyler’s friend was not harmed.

Barnett and Reid were arrested together at Heathrow Airport, waiting to board a flight on Saturday, 15 April 2023.

The examination of CCTV footage from inside and outside of the recording studio also showed what other people were doing that were present at the time of the attack.

The jury concluded that Rhys Antwi, 20 (30.03.04) of Prentis Road, Streatham and Kalam Bagge, 19 (04.03.05) of Nimrod Road, Streatham assisted and/or encouraged Barnett and Reid to carry out the fatal attack. They were both convicted of murder alongside Barnett and Reid, the main two defendants in the murder trial.

Antwi was seen on CCTV arming himself with a sword underneath his clothes inside the studio just before the shooting. Antwi also pleaded guilty to possessing an offensive weapon in a public place. The sword in question was recovered from his address in Streatham.

Bagge was also captured on CCTV footage inside the studio just before the murder which revealed that he knew that Barnett had taken possession of the firearm. He was arrested on Saturday, 22 April 2023.

Two other men, aged 20 and 21, were acquitted of Tyler’s murder.

Barnett, Reid, Antwi, and Bagge will be sentenced at the Old Bailey on Friday, 20 September.