I'm Kevin Zhang, a rising Junior at the King's Academy. At my free time, I enjoy playing volleyball, coding, and playing the flute for many years. I believe that it is important for kids to be exposed to many different subjects so that they can develop new interests.

My name is Royce Tse, and I'm a rising senior at Monta Vista High School. I've played soccer competitively for around eight years, playing for AYSO and De Anza Force, my current club. As a coach, I hope that I can get kids interested in staying fit and finding a sport they enjoy. Playing sports also is a great way of making new friends, I have made countless friends and unforgettable memories along the way with my clubs!

My name is Evan, and I'm a rising junior at Monta Vista High School. I've played soccer for 7 years and played for school teams all throughout middle school. I hope to interest the youth community in soccer and to help develop skills for children looking to get into a sport.

My name is Remy Xie, and I’m a rising Junior at Bellarmine College Preparatory. I’ve been playing soccer for 10 years, and competitively for 7 years, mostly for Allstars United. I played on Bellarmine’s freshman team, and my position is center back. I really love soccer, and I think it’s important for kids to be exposed to sports, both to have a hobby and for their physical health. I’ll do my best to help kids develop a passion for soccer and have tons of fun!

Hi my name is Gyan Goswami and I'm a rising Senior at Monta Vista High School. I decided to start coaching at Little Grass as a way to give back to the sport I love most.

Hi I'm Aadit Singh and I'm a rising Junior at Monta Vista High School. I've been playing soccer for 8 years and have a passion for the game. I like expanding this passion by playing and guiding the youth who are sparking an interest in the sport.

My name is Bhanu Raut. I attend Monta Vista High School. I have been playing soccer for 6 years now. I am currently playing soccer at Sunnyvale Alliance. I love soccer and hope to spread my passion to the youths. My favorite team is Barcelona. And like many, my favorite player is Lionel Messi.

My name is Erik Lewis, and I am a rising Junior at Monta Vista High School. I have been playing soccer for about 8 years, first in Seattle and now in Cupertino. I hope that as a coach I can help introduce kids to soccer just as I was at a young age!

Hi, my name is Jason, and I am a rising Junior at Monta Vista High school. I’ve been playing soccer for 9 years now and developed a great passion for the game. Some of my hobbies are chess, playing soccer(of course), and lifting. I am also trying to take on the guitar. I wanted to volunteer here at Little Grass because I’m looking forward to sharing my passion and knowledge of soccer to younger kids.

I'm Ethan Lewis, a rising sophomore at Monta Vista High School. I've played soccer for 8 years, starting in Seattle and now in Cupertino. As a coach, I am looking forward to guiding the youth and helping them develop their own interest in the sport.

Hello, my name is Albert Li, and I'm a rising Junior at Basis Independent Silicon Valley. I have been playing club soccer for almost 5 years now, and I wish to provide younger kids with a comfortable environment since any new sport will be challenging. Other than soccer, I enjoy cooking and math.

Hello friends, my name is Yuvan. I am a rising Junior at Monta Vista high school and I wrestle and play soccer for my school. My passion is to empower the next generation with the tools they need to succeed, while having fun doing it.

Hi! I'm Suhan. I've been playing volleyball for more than 4 years in school teams and clubs. Being a junior at Leland High School, I love playing volleyball and I'm excited to share my experience at Little Grass! Let's have fun!

Hey, my name is Charlie Jiang and I'm a rising senior at Monta Vista High School. I like to play sports, talk to friends, and play video games. The first time I ever touched a volleyball was 3 years ago and I have been playing club and school for 2 years now. At the camp I would like to see a lot of kids get better and grow as players.

Hello, I’m Natalie, a 9th grader at Saratoga High School. I have been playing varsity school volleyball for 2 years. I play piano, as well as the flute in the Saratoga High School band. I enjoy playing volleyball in my free time with my friends. I believe volleyball is extremely fun and I’ve made countless friends through it.

Hey everyone, I’m Tim, a rising junior at Bellarmine College Preparatory. I’ve played volleyball for close to 4 years, finishing up a club season last December. I love this sport a lot because I’ve learned so many fundamental things about life through volleyball like the key of good sportsmanship and a strong work ethic. I hope that my service at Little Grass can help kids grow their skills in sportsmanship, communication, and to ultimately love what they are passionate about and work hard to fuel that passion.

Hello! My name is Antony Wang and I will be one of your basketball coaches. I am a rising senior at Basis Independent Silicon Valley and have been playing basketball since 2nd grade. I have roughly seven years of experience in this sport, both recreationally and competitively, and last year I was on the junior varsity team a BISV. I believe that our younger participants are impacted greatly by the figures around the, so I hope to not only pass on my basketball skills but also instill a sense of discipline and cooperation in them; in short, to help them be better people.

Hello! I am Samuel Liu, a rising senior at BASIS Independent Silicon Valley. I have been playing basketball for 5 years now. Basketball is a challenging sport that requires dedication, focus, and lots of hard work. However, my favorite aspect of basketball is the availability to play with anyone and make many new friends. I hope to create an environment where younger kids can simultaneously improve their skills while having fun with their new friends.

What's up! My name is Cary Yao, and I am a rising junior at Bellarmine College Preparatory. I have been playing basketball since second grade, which gives me roughly 7 years of basketball experience. I am delighted to share my knowledge with the kids of Little Grass, and I look forward to meeting them and helping them improve their basketball skill sets.

Hello! My name is Arnav Shailesh and I am a rising junior (10th grade) at Piedmont Hills High School and I am one of your basketball coaches. I have been playing basketball for around 7 years, which is roughly since 4th grade. I have played both on school teams and on teams in recreational and competitive leagues outside of school. I was just on the JV team at my highschool this year and last year. As a coach, I strive to make each and every one of my students better, not only skill wise but as an athlete in general, meaning help develop principles and goals as an athlete.

My name is Ethan Hu and I'm a middle schooler in 6th grade. I have played ping-pong for 3 years and basketball for 4 years. Currently, I also have 1 year of coaching experience. I hope to make a child's learning experience enjoyable and fun.

I'm Anyang Chen, a 7th grader at Valley Christian Junior High. In my spare time, I like coding, playing piano and cello, and of course, playing ping pong. I have 3 years of experience in ping pong, and I hope to be able to teach kids the fundamentals of table tennis and make their learning experience fun.

Hi, my name is Brianna. I am a rising senior at BASIS Independent Silicon Valley. I started learning and have been playing chess since I was 5. I think that chess is a fun game that you can enjoy with other people, and it can teach you to strategize, focus, and be patient. I hope that I can introduce and spread my passion for chess to youth at Little Grass.