Kimanzi Constable

Kimanzi Constable is a former bread delivery guy who self-published two books that have sold over 86,000 copies. In the last year, he has lost 170 pounds and moved his family to Maui, Hawaii. You can usually find him writing while enjoying an ocean view. He is a published author, international speaker, and coach. He's a contributing writer for The Huffington Post, Entrepreneur Magazine, and Mind Body Green. He is a senior editor at The Good Men Project. His mission is to help men and women create true freedom in life.

Mark Burhenne

Mark Burhenne DDS is a Sunnyvale dentist who has been in private practice nearly thirty years, focusing on patient-centered, preventative, and evidence-based dental healthcare. He is dedicated to helping the world understand the connection between oral health and overall wellness and to take control of their dental health through his blog, AsktheDentist.com, which is quickly becoming the most trusted site for oral health information on the web. He is a contributor to CNN, HLN, Huffington Post, CBS News, Prevention, Men’s Health, the Dr. Oz blogs, and Yahoo! Health and author of How We Are Sleeping Our Way to Disease, Fatigue, and Unhappiness: The Eight Hour Sleep Paradox. He is a graduate of the University of the Pacific Dugoni School of Dentistry in San Francisco and member of the Academy of General Dentistry (AGD), The American Academy of Dental Sleep Medicine (AADSM), and The R.V. Tucker Study Club.

Matt Abrahams

Matt Abrahams is a passionate, collaborative and innovative educator and coach. Matt teaches both Strategic Communication and Effective Communication at Stanford University's Graduate School of Business. Matt is also Co-Founder and Principal at Bold Echo Communications Solutions, a presentation and communication skills company based in Silicon Valley that helps people improve their presentation skills. Matt has worked with executives to help prepare and present keynote addresses and IPO road shows, conduct media interviews, and deliver TED talks. Finally, Matt recently published the second edition of his book Speaking Up Without Freaking Out, a book written to help people become more confident, authentic, and compelling presenters. Prior to teaching, Matt held senior leadership positions in several leading software companies, where he created and ran global training and development organizations.

Natalie Ng

Natalie Ng is a Monta Vista alumnus (Class of 2014) and a current freshman at Stanford University. During high school, she developed a diagnostic tool for breast cancer that may predict the spread of breast cancer cells to other parts of the body more accurately. She was awarded fifth place in the Intel Science Talent Search, first place in the International BioGENEius Challenge, and a Davidson Fellowship for her work. In March of this year, she was an exhibitor at the fifth White House Science Fair. During her time at Monta Vista, Natalie was co-captain of the Girl’s Golf team and an officer of the Research Club. At Stanford, she is pursuing a major in physics or bioengineering and is a member of Design for America and Stanford Students in Biodesign.