Jacques Santer yesterday gave up his fight to stay on as president of the discredited European Commission, and a relieved Tony Blair and Gerhard Schroder began promoting their preferred candidate, the Dutch prime minister, Wim Kok.

And after a two-hour meeting the commissioners, who resigned en masse earlier this week, issued a brief statement agreeing to keep their caretaker work to a bare minimum until their replacements were found

"We have resigned and have no desire or intention of remaining in office a moment longer than we have to... We have decided to exercise our powers in a restrictive manner, ie, to deal with current and urgent business and to comply with our institutional and legal obligations, but not to take fresh political initiatives," they said.

Although the whole Commission resigned after an independent panel of experts found numerous cases of mismanagement, Mr Santer and other key commissioners had been fighting a desperate rearguard action to keep their jobs.

As officials struggled to explain how commissioners could resign yet stay in their posts, Karel van Miert, the Belgian competition policy commissioner, said that they would remain to supervise the running of the institution until successors were in place.

Countries began the battle last night on behalf of their favoured successors to Mr Santer. France, Italy and Spain were resisting furiously what they fear is a fix by northern members to impose their candidate and political culture on Europe.

Italy and Spain insist that after Mr Santer, a conservative from a small northern state (Luxembourg), it is the turn of a socialist from a big southern country.

Italy's problem is that their candidate, former prime minster Romano Prodi, is not a socialist. Spain's problem is that their government is conservative, and their (socialist) candidate, Javier Solana, has his hands full running Nato.

The German government said yesterday that it would hold an emergency summit soon to name a new Commission.

"We must make it clear that in this difficult situation, the EU remains capable to act," said Mr Schroder, the German chancellor and current chairman of the European Union.

Next week's long-scheduled EU summit in Berlin now looks likely to be dominated not by the expected rows over farm reform and who pays what in the EU budget, but by a heavyweight title bout, a cultural clash with strong nationalist overtones over who will be the next leader of the Commission.

"It is essential that the heads of government realise how urgent this is, for Europe's credibility with the public as well as Europe's massive agenda", said Labour MEP leader Alan Donnelly. "Parliament is ready to move very fast, and it would be disastrous if the member states prevaricate".

Some commissioners were making little secret of their availability as temporary stand-in presidents for the remainder of the year. Mr Van Miert waved his hat towards the ring yesterday. And the Liberal group in the European Parliament were last night proposing the vice-president Leon Brittan, who is widely seen as a safe (and palpably clean) pair of hands, for the remainder of the year.

The real fight, however, is for the big job of running the Commission for the next five years, restoring its credibility, cleaning up the bureaucracy and admitting the first new members from eastern Europe.

Mr Blair pushed Mr Kok's candidacy with Mr Schroder in London on Tuesday night, and the German leader also raised the Dutchman's name in a meeting in Vienna yesterday with the Austrian chancellor, Viktor Klima.

Mr Kok, well known in Europe after five years as Dutch prime minister, is not a wholly willing candidate. His partners in the Dutch coalition government fear that their administration could fall without him. Mr Kok is also aware that the heads of government cannot guarantee him the commission presidency for the rest of the year and a full five-year term beyond that. Under the new rules of the treaty of Amsterdam, which comes into force in May, the new parliament will have the right to veto the next nominee for the presidency.

"I think it would be good to have a candidate from a southern country," Mr Kok said yesterday, which his backers in Brussels and London immediately explained was the kind of self-effacing remark that a real candidate had to make. Under European tradition, the best way to lose the job is to be seen to be campaigning too hard for it.

Mr Kok's backers were rallying socialist and trade union leaders from across Europe yesterday to press his candidacy, using the argument that Europe needed a new and trusted leader fast, and that the "historic opportunity" to transform the political culture of Europe and to exploit the current dominance of Europe's governments by social democratic parties should not be wasted.

Mr Santer, meanwhile, has arranged himself a graceful exit. He will follow the last Commission president from Luxembourg, Gaston Thorn, and run the tiny duchy's big television corporation, the body behind Radio Luxembourg.

Rene Berthelot, the retired dentist who is at the centre of fraud allegations relating to disgraced commissioner Edith Cresson, will not be able to speak about his role in the affair for many weeks, a family friend said yesterday, Paul Webster in Paris adds.

The part-time scientific advisor, whose 18 months' work for the EU amounted to 24 pages of valueless notes, was taken to hospital in Poitiers on December 28, reportedly after suffering a heart attack. The family friend said that "a serious nervous complaint" had been diagnosed and he was being kept under observation.

Ms Cresson, who was science and education commissioner, told the press that he had been appointed to carry out research into ageing and Aids. But the inquiry found her guilty of favouritism and said that the dentist was not qualified for the job. He hardly visited Brussels, instead carrying out his research at Chatellreault, the central French town where Ms Cresson was mayor until 1997.