Review: A mind-numbing visit to 'Mumford'

September 23, 1999

Web posted at: 4:21 p.m. EDT (2021 GMT)

By Reviewer Paul Clinton

(CNN) -- Earlier in his career, writer-director Lawrence Kasdan gave the film world memorable, exciting films like "The Big Chill" (1983), "The Accidental Tourist" (1988), and "Grand Canyon" (1991). Sadly, he hasn't lived up to his reputation with his latest project, the well-meant but mediocre comedy "Mumford."

Featuring an ensemble cast and cameos by Ted Danson and Martin Short, "Mumford" is the tale of a psychologist named Mumford who appears out of nowhere and decides to hang out his professional shingle in a little town that also happens to be called Mumford. See a pattern here? He's genuine in his interest about his patients, makes house calls, and listens to them in a way that really seems to help. But the doc may need a little help himself.

VIDEO Theatrical preview for "Mumford" Real 28K 80K Windows Media 28K 80K Paul Clinton reviews "Mumford" in "Pauls' Pix" Real 28K 80K Windows Media 28K 80K

Loren Dean plays the unconventional therapist who, in a matter of months, has built a loyal group of devoted followers in this little town he now calls home.

His patients include Mary McDonnell, who plays a shopaholic named Althea Brockett. Danson (in a very brief appearance) plays her egotistical and out-of-touch husband, Jeremy. Pruitt Taylor Vince plays Henry Follett, a mild-mannered, overweight patient with an out-of-control fantasy life.

Jason Lee plays Skip Skipperton, a computer hardware billionaire looking for love in all the wrong places. And Hope Davis (she played the lead in "Next Stop, Wonderland" in 1998), portrays Sophie Davis, a woman suffering from chronic fatigue syndrome and an overpowering mom-from-Hell (played wickedly by Dana Ivey).

With his success, professional jealously hits the two other shrinks in town (David Paymer, Jane Adams). Fueled by the neurotic rantings of a local attorney, played by Short, they start asking awkward questions, and Mumford's mysterious past begins to catch up with him.

He and his patients must now reevaluate their lives. At the heart of this film is the question, do people deserve a second chance?

Film won't help its ensemble cast

Alfre Woodard, who plays Mumford's neighbor, and the aforementioned Short and Danson are the only performers with major name recognition involved in this project.

In fact, with the possible exceptions of McDonnell and Paymer, this ensemble film is made up of actors unknown to most of the general public. The release of "Mumford" will do little, if anything, to change that situation.

Davis' performance is striking. Her face is an ever-changing canvas. Lee, perhaps remembered from his role in "Chasing Amy," delivers a believable turn as the lovelorn billionaire. But for the most part, they're all up a boring creek with no creative paddles.

Kasdan is fascinated by the human condition. His films in the past have featured quirky characters who usually capture the interest of the audience.

MORE MOVIE REVIEWS, SITES:

In "Mumford," he's once again populated his story with engaging personalities. There's just one little problem. Most scripts offer a journey of some type taken by one or more characters. They change and learn over the course of the story, and so does the audience.

But "Mumford" is a trip to nowhere. The first hour is like watching paint dry. Then things rev up to a frantic snail's pace, until finally in the third act, the film sputters to an unsatisfying conclusion.

There is no cure for this film. Not funny enough to be a comedy, not compelling enough to be really dramatic, this movie has little to no conflict. The doc's secret isn't that dark, his patients aren't that psychologically damaged, and what should be emotional depth turns out to be only shallow puddles of angst.

The lights may be on -- but the doctor's not in.

"Mumford" opens nationwide on Friday, September 23rd and is rated "R" for sex-related images, language and drug content. The running time is 111 minutes.

RELATED STORY:

Ted Danson: Tall, handsome and a little goofy?

September 20, 1999

RELATED SITES:

Official 'Mumford' site

Buena Vista Pictures

Note: Pages will open in a new browser window

External sites are not endorsed by CNN Interactive.

MORE MOVIE NEWS:

An Asimov twist: Robin Williams, robot

Beauty and the Bugs: 'Anna and the King'

Review: 'The End of the Affair' -- get out your handkerchiefs

Hanks tops box office with 'Toy Story,' 'Green Mile'

LATEST HEADLINES: