Even at rest, the new Mercedes-AMG G 63 is already enormously powerful and brimming with potential. The AMG-specific radiator grille and the 4-branch, side-oriented AMG exhaust system make the most powerful G-Class instantly recognisable. Large air inlets with vertical louvers and AMG wheel-arch extensions enhance the striking front visage and emphasise its extroverted character - as does the AMG emblem on the bonnet. Bold light-alloy wheels are a powerful style complement to the prestigious design.

At the heart of the Mercedes-AMG G 63 is the legendary 4.0-litre V8 biturbo engine with 430 kW (585 hp) and 850 Nm of torque. This has been coupled with a starter generator for the first time and boasts even more explosive power delivery and breathtaking torque. At the same time, the twin-scroll turbochargers positioned between the cylinder heads ensure better responsiveness and high-tech components from the world of motorsport offer a highly resilient drive.

The AMG SPEEDSHIFT TCT 9G sports transmission is the main reason for the optimum power-transfer to the road. The AMG SPEEDSHIFT TCT 9G executes shift commands without any interruption of traction and is faster than ever before. This enables both extremely dynamic acceleration and a fuel-efficient driving style. To ensure that your Mercedes-AMG G 63 performs well on any surface, three selectable differential locks ensure uninterrupted propulsion - even in extreme off-road situations.

Inside the Mercedes-AMG G 63, first-class materials meet perfect workmanship and a design language with character. State-of-the-art technology, such as the intelligent MBUX multimedia system with augmented reality navigation and off-road display, blends harmoniously into the overall concept. In addition, the customisation options for the interior are almost limitless and meet the highest demands on quality.

The individual features include: active multicontour seats, high-quality nappa leather, elegant diamond-design seat graphics, exclusive colour variations with coordinated contrast-topstitching, as well as the leather-covered instrument panel. First-class comfort features such as the Burmester® 3D surround sound system or the ambient lighting for the air vents enhance the feel-good atmosphere and further emphasise the luxurious character of the ambience.

The standard AMG RIDE CONTROL suspension with adaptive, electronically controlled damping system allows the Mercedes-AMG G 63 to perform the familiar balancing act between off-road comfort and on-road dynamics. Simply select your desired set-up: "Comfort", "Sport" and "Sport+". Depending on the driving situation, the roll-and-pitch stabilisation system continuously regulates the damper control and reduces movements of the bodywork. This further increases stability through dynamic cornering and ensures the feeling of safety at the limit.