Thakurli (Marathi)-ठाकुर्ली ,is a suburb of the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation in India.

Contents

Youth fall from local train between dombivli and thakurli no treatment for 2 hours

Map of Thakurli Dombivli Maharashtra

References

Map of Thakurli, Dombivli, Maharashtra

Thakurli is also a railway station on the Central line of the Mumbai Suburban Railway network.

In this small village in 1932, GIP Railway established its first coal-based power station, Chola Power Station, for producing the electric power required to run the suburban electric railway. The Chola village and the surrounding areas also form home to the native Agri community known for its pride, culture and warrior like attitude. For the staff of this powerhouse, staff quarters were constructed; for workers, 52 "chawls" (rows of dwelling units), and for British officers, 12 bungalows.

As this area was surrounded by bushy and rocky terrain, British army officers established fox hunting clubs for their weekend pleasures. Officers' wives established a school for children of staff members; this still-renowned school is now known as Mahila Samiti English High School. It is now run by the Wives of Officers Of the Electrical Department of Central Railway.

The defunct thermal power plant at Thakurli is set to get a new lease of life. Union railway minister, Mamata Banerjee, announced in her third Railway Budget, that to meet the electrical energy requirement of the railways, which is growing rapidly with expanding infrastructure and traffic, a 700-megawatt gas-based power plant will come up at Thakurli depending on how much fuel can be made available at an economical cost. But as of 2016, there has been no concrete action plan devised for the previously proposed power plant. The defunct British age thermal power plant that functioned from water from the tgane creek (ulhas river) is still present at the railway land adjoining the creek at thakurli west.

Thakurli west region consists of land predominantly owned by Central Railways with plenty of undeveloped land. This is also where the defunct coal power station stands. The Thane creek extends towards Bhiwandi and further out to Kalyan and beyond via Thakurli West. The areas in Thakurli west adjoining the creek are not inhabitable as during monsoons most of these parts are flooded with water. However this is not the case in Thakurli east region, which is dense residential area. There are schools and college, and also hospital and restaurants aplenty here.

On travelling in the Main Line of the Mumbai Suburban Railway network while travelling in down direction from CST Mumbai, Thakurli station is the halt before Kalyan and after Dombivli stations. Slow trains and semi-fast trains halt here.

Thakurli has truly Mumbai like cosmopolitan environment with locals(Marathi speaking) and South Indians, & North Indians in abundance. Thakurli has in the recent years seen an real estate boom with many residential complexes rising up in erstwhile green and farming lands. The MIDC region of Dombivli extends deep into Thakurli. The KDMC sports complex is major sports and recreational facility near Thakurli.

The residential property rates has skyrocketed since year 2011.