PRAGUE, Czech Republic -- Former Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus reached the second round in a parliamentary vote to choose a new Czech president but stalemate still looked the most likely outcome.

The second and final term of Eastern Europe's respected elder statesman Vaclav Havel ends on February 2, but the vote to elect his successor has been fraught with political wrangling.

Official results showed right-wing economist Klaus and independent Senator Jaroslava Moserova won through to the second round of the parliamentary vote on Friday, dealing a shock defeat to another former premier, Milos Zeman.

The results, which follows a vote last week in which no candidate managed to win a majority, put Klaus as the leading candidate in the lower house with 89 out of 200 votes. Moserova led candidates in the Senate with 43 of 81 ballots.

If the second round of voting fails, a third round will be held where Moserova and Klaus do not need to carry both houses, and only a simple majority of the 281 overall votes.

Analysts said the second round vote looked likely to head for another deadlock, given that the Social Democrats, the leading parliamentary party, no longer had a candidate of their own.

"I expect we will not support any of the candidates in the next round," Zdenek Skromach, a vice-chairman of the party, told Reuters.

Experts said that the Communists, with 41 votes in the lower house, may become kingmakers in the process if either candidate can rally their support.

Communist deputy Jiri Dolejs told Reuters that supporting Klaus was "an option" since "it would be better for this country to complete the election today."

"The irony is, that 13 years after the fall of communism, the communists themselves may be the ones who decide who replaces Havel," said political analyst Jacques Rupnik.

The centrist Christian Democrats and the Freedom Union -- the two other members of the coalition government -- have often clashed with Zeman and were seen as likely to leave the government if he had come to power.

Zeman, his political comeback stopped dead in its tracks after the vote, left the joint session at the ancient Prague Castle without speaking to reporters.

His failure was a huge victory for current Prime Minister Vladimir Spidla, who succeeded him as head of the leftist Social Democrats and led the party to an election victory last June.

But Zeman's influence has remained strong, and his backers in the party have voiced biting criticism of Spidla for allegedly caving in to rightist parties in the coalition on divisive issues such as public spending reforms.

Although the president has largely ceremonial duties, he can influence the country heavily with judicial and central bank appointments.

If a replacement for Havel is still not found after a third attempt, parliament may then vote to amend the constitution to allow for direct elections by the people.

If no candidate wins a majority in both houses after a first vote, the top two will square off in a second ballot where one person must win.

A week ago when the first three rounds of voting failed, Havel, the playwright-turned-politician who led Czechs from behind the Iron Curtain, gave a heartfelt farewell speech to lawmakers, urging them to work for "freedom and dignity" for all.

In that vote Klaus and Senate Speaker Petr Pithart faced each other in a third round -- but neither was able to garner the required number of votes to win.

Havel, a hugely popular figured and symbol of powerful resistance to communist oppression, was barred by law from seeking a third term.

Click Here to try 4 Free Trial Issues of Time!