Blockchain Innovation Center - Fujitsu Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT)

How can enterprise blockchain and distributed ledger technology (DLT) fill the gaps and expand business capabilities? Simply put - integration, specifically the integration of trust into data and transaction processes with a cryptographically verifiable digital ledger. Increasing trust in data drastically raises its value to the business.

Discover our enterprise blockchain solutions

Building your Multi-Cloud solution through co-creation

The key to successful cloud transformations lies in co-creation and leveraging a network of experienced partners. At Fujitsu, we team up with top-tier cloud providers to develop tailored cloud solutions that integrate the latest innovative technologies to drive your journey towards a Connected, Intelligent, and Transformed future. Thanks to our established global partnerships with Amazon Web Services, Microsoft, Oracle, and VMware, organizations worldwide are increasingly selecting Fujitsu to co-create their Multi-Cloud environment.

Co-create your Multi-Cloud

ServiceNow - The full service – at every step

Fujitsu is the partner to support companies’ businesses and transformation goals. Our heritage as a leading service integrator provides us with deep technical expertise and the knowhow to integrate Service Now across even the most complex legacy and hybrid IT environments. From implementation and integration through managed services and upgrade support, we can help you unlock the value from your investment through both advisory and technical services.We can avoid inefficiency of poor processes, the complexity of disjointed systems and your customers and workforce demands for things better, faster, easier... With Service Now’s expertise, and vision, you can get the best out of creating the great experiences your customers and employees demands. We make the complex simple.

Discover our ServiceNow Portfolio

Your career at Fujitsu Belgium

Fujitsu Belgium is always looking for talented applicants. From sales and marketing, to engineering and product development for individuals with the skills and expertise to deliver competitive advantage to our customers, we are committed to provide an environment that supports growth and wellbeing. With a wide range of training programs, we help support our employees’ developmental needs and career goals. Apply today or sign up for our job alerts.

Apply today

Looking for a first job? Discover our Young Graduate Program

Together with our subsidiary CHRLY, we will welcome and support you to shape your career with us. We provide the opportunity for you to get involved in several activities alongside your chosen role. To compliment the role specific training you will receive, you will undertake a 24-month modular development program you can find here. The training covers key skills such as self-awareness, leadership, business awareness and business knowledge. You will be assigned a “buddy” (a graduate from the year above) and a mentor to support you on this journey.

Discover our Young Graduate Program