About Seedr

What is Seedr?

Seedr is Fujitsu Belgium's innovation hub, dedicated to driving co-creation and sustainability in order to foster new business models. Our main objective is to transform the creative ideas of our internal employees into successful microenterprises, thereby identifying new motors for long-term growth. Seedr defines a microenterprise as a self-sustainable business unit that can operate independently within the larger organization. It's an innovative solution that allows new units to grow at the speed of a startup, while keeping the benefits and support of the parent company.

At Fujitsu Belgium, we strive to de-risk our innovation ventures by facilitating and engaging in idea exploration, validating, and selecting business initiatives, and facilitating the execution of new (venture) ideas alongside “founders”.

What is our vision?

We strive to be at the forefront of technological innovation, leveraging emerging technologies to turn an employee’s idea into a successful microenterprise. We are committed to staying ahead of the curve and continuously exploring innovative ideas and opportunities.

We are dedicated to helping Fujitsu Belgium achieve its full potential and become a leader in the digital economy. With our commitment to innovation and sustainability, we strive to create a better future for our partners, our clients, and society as a whole.

How does it work?

Seedr follows a collaborative and agile approach to turn employee ideas into successful microenterprises. We work through a series of processes that aims to minimize the overall risk of our initiatives.

Together, the Seedr team leverages its collective knowledge, experience, and expertise to drive innovation and growth for Fujitsu Belgium. Their passion for creating new business opportunities, combined with their strong background in innovation, partnerships, sales, customer management, and presales, lays the groundwork for the success of every initiative.

While the Seedr team provides a strong foundation and support throughout the process, the sustainability of the microenterprises ultimately depends on the drive, motivation, and capabilities of the founder team. We work closely with founders to ensure they have the resources and guidance they need to succeed in their ventures.