Media-Tech Business Forum

Web Series: Episode Six – Record Store Day in Europe: Progress Report

January 19, 2022

If you sum up the state of Vinyl today in one, it’s RESILIENCE.

Over the past 15 years (decade in Europe), Record Store Day propelled the global rebirth of the format as the current preferred physical music carrier and a year-round phenomenon that celebrates record store culture.

In the last two years, it’s not only withstood but grown substantially sales-wise, despite:

A worldwide pandemic that is still leaking havoc in everyday life everywhere

Global supply chain issues that hamper the movement of materials and finished goods

Rising costs for consumables including PVC, packaging cardboard, etc.

A single lacquer supplier in Japan to accommodate everyone’s manufacturing

Safety protocols (see #1) resulting less foot traffic at retail and more e-commerce

Pressing plants are as busy as they can be to keep up with consumer demand, which shows no signs of slowing down. How do we keep this momentum going? We hear from leading European RSD representatives how they’re faring and preparing amid an uncertain environment in a discussion moderated by Making Vinyl co-founder Larry Jaffee, author of the forthcoming book, Record Store Day: The Most Improbable Comeback of the 21st Century, to be published globally 23 April 2022, coinciding with RSD’s 15 anniversary.

Speakers:

Megan Page @ Record Store Day United Kingdom

David Godevais @ Record Store Day France

Jan Köpke @ Record Store Day Germany

Esther Vollebregt @ Record Store Day The Netherlands

Making Vinyl Berlin

May 2-3, 2019

Meistersaal / Hansa Studios

It’s fitting that our first Making Vinyl conference in Europe takes place in Berlin, following two U.S. events in Detroit that also celebrated the manufacturing rebirth of the vinyl record. They’re practically twin cities that had fallen in disrepair, but embraced its rich artistic culture to lift themselves out of their urban decay. Both Berlin and Detroit are globally recognized as leaders in the techno DJ genre, which helped keep vinyl alive when most even in the music industry thought the format was as good as dead and buried.

“There’s been a Detroit-Berlin connection since the early 1990s,” explains Detroit DJ Juan Atkins in a magazine article. Detroit’s Cass Corridor 15 years ago wouldn’t be a neighborhood that you would want to wander around, musician/ entrepreneur Jack White told the first Making Vinyl audience in November 2017. Industrial-minded Jack helped to gentrify the area by putting his Third Man Pressing in his hometown of Detroit instead of his current base in Nashville.

We’re so fortunate to be holding this event at the majestic Meistersaal, a one-time concert hall but more famously the same physical space that held Hansa Studios, some 200 meters from The Wall, inspiring David Bowie to write and record there in the studio “Heroes.” Bowie moved to Berlin in 1997 because it was the capital of his childhood dreams and home of Expressionist art. There he produced new music that helped further develop him into “an artist of extraordinary brilliance and originality,” writes Heroes: Bowie and Berlin author Tobias Ruther. Write academics Dominick Bartmanski and an Woodward in their book Vinyl: The Analogue Record in the Digital Age (Bloomsbury, 2015) of Berlin: “The city is often cited as an important ingredient in this cultural brew thathad vinyl as one of its key totems, a benchmark of quality and authentic simplicity at the time when the mainstream thought in opposite ways or did not think at all … In Berlin, vinyl is not just discussed and talked about as something extraordinary. Rather, it is lived, experienced, experimented with and enjoyed quite commonly.”

That’s our goal with Making Vinyl and our friends at the MEDIA-TECH Association and their World of Physical Media program on Day One. Discerning consumers of all ages still relish the tactile nature of records, CDs and even cassettes, are and willing to pay much more for them even if the same music can be emanated from their smart-phones for a relatively nominal monthly subscription price. It defies all technological and economic logic that vinyl would be revived as a deluxe product. But a dozen years after the first Record Store Day (RSD), it’s clear that this global phenomenon has traction, as evidenced by Making Vinyl’s opening panel with RSD representatives from Germany, Great Britain, Italy, France, and Holland. As the late great Leonard Cohen sang, “First we take Manhattan, then we take Berlin.”

Keynote speakers: Bob Mold, Rene Renefeld, Eduard Meyer & Gerhard Blum.

Making Vinyl Detroit 2018

October 1-2, 2018

Westin Hotel | Detroit, Michigan, USA

Welcome back to Detroit for the second edition of Making Vinyl.

In November 2017, we sort of proved the concept: the rebirth of the record manufacturing industry was not a fluke, that it had traction and was going to continue to grow.

The proof lies in the nearly 300 professionals from 16 countries who traded notes last fall on why they believe vinyl is an important piece of their business plans to distribute prerecorded music in the digital age.

This year the proof also lies in how we’re presenting seven new pressing plants on why they decided to get into record manufacturing, on top of the seven fairly new pressing plants who spoke about their experiences at last year’s conference.

We’re heartened by the continued growth of Record Store Day (RSD), a partner in Making Vinyl. RSD co-founder Michael Kurtz kicks off MV 2018 with a panel discussion of labels, distribution companies and retailers who will attest to the fact that vinyl is continuing to grow.

Special thanks to our keynote speaker “Little Steven” Van Zandt, an incomparable music industry renaissance man – not to mention terrific actor (The Sopranos, Lillyhammer) – who managed to fit us Making Vinyl in his busy recording and performing schedule with his aptly named band “The Disciples of Soul,” which is back in Detroit for a concert on Nov. 9 at the Detroit Music Hall.

Thank you to all our sponsors, exhibitors and speakers for helping us bring Making Vinyl to fruition. And also thanks to all the submitters to the 2018 Making Vinyl Packaging Awards, which received a total of 237 entries, up from last year’s 124! The quality of the work – as you will see Monday night – blew away our panel of award-winning judges. Congratulations in advance to all the winners and runners-up.

In putting together this year’s conference program, we were mindful to not repeat topics as much as possible, and focus on important subjects that will move the industry forward, such as economic models and women in vinyl. This also includes the establishment of manufacturing guidelines, which we are developing in collaboration with the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), which had not touch the relevant documents since 1978, and the Media-Tech Association.

Few will dispute that today’s records – with 180-gram vinyl being commonplace – are generally better made and better sounding. It’s not your father’s record industry to be sure. And part of the reason for that everyone along the vinyl value chain is working smarter and leaner, perhaps with greater cooperation than what existed in the past.

Finally, stay tuned for announcements regarding our 2019 plans for Making Vinyl in Europe in June and back in the U.S. next November. Enjoy all that’s going on the next two days, and thanks again for coming!

Making Vinyl Detroit 2017

November 6-7, 2017

Westin Hotel | Detroit, Michigan, USA

You can’t make this stuff up.

Home entertainment format gets quickly replaced by supposed advanced technologies in fast succession (i.e., Compact Disc, digital downloads, and streaming), only to re-emerge as a deluxe product that consumers are willing today to pay twice as much for a newly pressed vinyl record than they did for a CD!?!

Yes, that sums up vinyl’s comeback, although it doesn’t acknowledge that it never really went away, thanks to old-school DJs spinning dance records, purists with their thousand-dollar-plus stereos catered to by a handful of audiophile labels, and flea-market crate diggers looking for collectibles. One person’s trash is another’s treasure, indeed.

Nor does all the commercial activity surrounding vinyl – a $1 billion global business, estimates Deloitte – give enough credit to the dozen or so pressing plants around the world that never quite gave up manufacturing records with their antiquated equipment.

But Vinyl 2.0 is not your father’s record business. New machinery and materials suppliers have perfected nearly century-old processes with higher yields, sustainability and better-sounding records!

It’s no wonder that for the past two months since the conference began taking registrations, a week didn’t go by that we learned of a new pressing plant already operational or soon to be online. Making Vinyl is bringing together the great minds all along the vinyl value chain – from the pressing plants to the mastering facilities and PVC manufacturers to the plater/stamper makers and lathe cutters to the labels and indie retailers – who perhaps didn’t have the opportunity to meet each other in person previously.

We’ve gathered in this great music city of Detroit – the culture that produced MOTOWN and its stellar artist roster in the 1960s, as well as everyone from John Lee Hooker, Bob Seger and Iggy & The Stooges to Madonna, Eminem and The White Stripes – to celebrate the rebirth of the global record manufacturing.

We especially thank Day 2 Keynoter Darryl (“DMC”) McDaniels and Karl Groeger’s help in securing the rap legend, as well as Fellow Keynoter/Detroit Favorite Son Jack White for opening up his spanking new Third Man Pressing to all Making Vinyl delegates, and especially TMP’s Ben Blackwell and Roe Peterhans for helping us figure out the logistics, and making available other TMP staff for the panel sessions. You guys are the best!

It takes a village to mount a first-time event like this one (see thank you’s on page 38), but we’d be remiss not to acknowledge Rainbo Records and Colonial Purchasing Co-op board member Steve Sheldon for his guidance and encouragement in getting the ball rolling, as well as Opening Keynoter Michael Kurtz and Carrie Colliton for coming up with Record Store Day. Without RSD, you probably wouldn’t be reading this Making Vinyl program guide. We’re already planning future editions of this event.

We have no doubt this fascinating industry is only getting started.