@bembe

Excellent advice - there’s almost nothing more to add

@Yoda_Basit

Perhaps only two more suggestions:

It’s a good idea to use “Deepl Write” (apart from Deepl Translator) in German (it’s still beta, but awesome).

Even native speakers of German in my company use it regularly to get alternative sentences. The AI results are usually very impressive!

What’s also nice is to play “AI ping pong”:

Write your first draft (say your summary of news, Wikipedia articles, etc.) in German.

Then use ChatGPT to rewrite your draft (selecting the tone you prefer: informal, formal, business-oriented, academic).

Finally, use Deepl Write to correct what ChatGPT has produced.

Work again on the end result - if necessary.

If there are things (grammar points, slang, etc.) you don’t understand, just ask here in the forum. Usually, the native speakers of German on LingQ can come up with answers fast…

Good luck!

PS -

How many words do you have to write before you feel at ease in writing?

It’s hard to tell, but from my experience in English, French, and Spanish, I’d say ca. 250k - 300k words. At least, you’ll then be at an advanced level.

However, it’s probably even more for native speakers of non-Germanic / non-Romance languages (say, for people from Asian countries).

Unfortunately, there is no shortcut here, because good writing is a marathon even for native speakers, especially if they want to write professionally.

In brief: Good writers are made - not born

Hi @Yoda_Basit,

Well, the general idea of “AI ping pong” is to use a chain or “zoo” of AI tools that people can use as creative sparring partners.

In other words, humans are still in the writing loop, but they let these tools compete against each other to get ideas, gain momentum, generate text / audio / images and video, etc.

1) The first thing is to get good at “prompt engineering”:

See this “Prompt Engineering Specialization” by Prof. Jules White (a computer scientist from Vanderbilt University) on Coursera: https://www.coursera.org/specializations/prompt-engineering

I completed his courses a few weeks ago: recommended!

It’s a good idea to know most of the ChatGPT patterns from this prompt patterns catalogue:

https://www.dre.vanderbilt.edu/~schmidt/PDF/PLoP-patterns.pdf

2) Use the generative AIs to create personalized content for you:

Language level: You can specify the language level the genAI should use (A1/2, B1/2, C1/C2) to adjust the difficulty of the L2.

Vocabulary level: You can also specify whether to use basic, intermediate, or advanced vocabulary (including collocations = conventionalized word groups / idioms).

Tone: Select the appropriate tone, i.e.: informal, neutral, formal, business-like, academic.

Topic complexity: You can choose a simpler or more complicated topic to discuss.

Sentence structures: You can specify whether the genAI should use simple or complex sentence structures.

Idioms / grammar: You can specify whether the AI should use idioms or complex grammar constructions (Note: It can also explain the grammar constructions themselves by dissecting them).

Summarizing Wikipedia / news articles, blogposts, etc.

Chatting with the genAI about the contents it generated (Note: You can also use Memrise, for ex., to talk to ChatGPT 3.5).

Then you can use other tools to play around with the personalized content created by the genAI:

Deepl Write

The AI voices in Edge (IMO, they’re excellent - much better than LingQ’s AI voices).

LingQ’s AI to simplify texts.

And, of course, you can import your personalized content into LingQ to create your own personalized library

3) If you want to go more “pro”, check out these writing tools tips:

Hope this gives you some ideas…

Good luck & mucho exito!

PS -

If you’re still at a beginner level, it’s best just to have short daily chats (talking or writing) with the genAIs using the simplifications mentioned above.

bembe and Peter have offered great advice as usual.

What I’ve done (and need to do more), is just try to do a daily journal. Say what you can about the prior day, or for the current day (if near the end of the day). Or you could do a weekly one and hit the highlights. Type it out however you can…You say you only have 750 words known so you might be limited. If you need to use “caveman” language, do that, but as Bembe suggested, keep it really simple. You can say a lot with very simple sentences.

After I do this writing, I’ll either submit it on LingQ writing exchange, or lately I simply go to chatgpt and ask it “Can you correct this German text I wrote and suggest if there are better ways to say things?” (then paste the text after it). I usually save of my original writing, along with the chatgpt version to review later. Or use the chatgpt or writing exchange feedback to import into LingQ.

I’ve not tried taking the chatgpt version into DeepL write as Peter suggests (to @PeterBormann , do you find DeepL’s translations to be better? Or is there a different purpose for doing this?)

A lot of what you write in this journal will be fairly repetitive, but this is also YOUR everyday and will feature words that are closely related to YOUR life. You are creating your own personal vocabulary…a phrasebook. So this should also help with your speaking and being able to reproduce these phrases and sentences with ease.

In the journal, you could talk about trips or other exciting things (and not so exciting things - I brushed my teeth, etc.).

Another nice thing about the chatgpt feedback compared to writing exchange is that I can get instant feedback. Also, if I feel like chatgpt’s corrections might not be getting the exact feel of what I was trying to say, I can either ask it to translate from my english directly, or otherwise tell it that you were trying to convey something different and can it correct it’s interpretation in another way.

Other things you can try to write: fiction, creative writing, summarize something you’ve read (ideally in your target language), write a review of something you’ve seen or read, or a product you’ve used. Some of these may not be so easy with limited vocabulary, but I suggest always TRYING to say/write something in some manner. Perhaps you can describe, or use “caveman” language. If you truly don’t know, then just write down the word or phrase in your native language and use deepL or chat gpt to translate for you.

Hi Eric,

I’ve not tried taking the chatgpt version into DeepL write as Peter suggests (to @PeterBormann , do you find DeepL’s translations to be better? Or is there a different purpose for doing this?)

Deepl Translator is OK and it works for many, esp. Indo-European languages quite well (I’m not sure about Japanese, for ex., though).

However, Deepl Write - DeepL Write: AI-powered writing companion - (for German / UK-US English) is on another level. Unfortunately, I don’t have any stats to prove it, but the experience of my colleagues and me (all native speakers of German) is that it’s superior to GPT models (ChatGPT 3.5 / 4 and Copilot) and Deepl Translator when it comes to German.

But even my colleague from the US was amazed at how good Deepl Write’s English was.

Esp. Deepl Write’s selection of “writing styles” and “tones” is amazing:

It also shows the corrections it made:

That said, the GPT AIs are still more powerful, But Deepl Write seems to be the top of its AI class when it comes to writing in German.

Anyway, I’ve found it useful to use several AI tools and let them compete with each other. Probably you could use them as follows:

Write your first draft in German.

Interact with the GPT models (ChatGPT 3.5 / 4, Llama 2, Copilot, etc.) to get your text corrected (writing style, tone, etc.) and dissected (grammar, idioms / collocations).

Get a 2nd opinion from Deepl Write using different writing styles and tones.

But learners could also use Deepl Write in stage 2) and then apply the GPT models on Deepl Write’s text versions in stage 3).

In my experience, it’s simply interesting to receive different suggestions/corrections from different AI tools here (and, of course, for nuances that go beyond the capabilities of the AI tools, we can always rely on our skills/intuition as native speakers of German).

BTW:

The “AI ping pong” doesn’t stop here.

If we want to create “highly personalized content”, we can also use “text-to-image” and “text-to-video” prompts so that the end result is a transmedia experience.

So imagine you want to write stories about vampires, werewolves and zombies at different language levels. Now you can create such stories with the writing tools mentioned above. But you can also listen to them using Edge (for ex.) and add images / videos.

I think that’s a game changer for everyone (not only for kids / teens, but also for many adults).

The era of AI-assisted, highly personalised transmedia content can therefore begin! :- )

I think bamboozled is specifying that the lesson itself needs to be beginner 1/2–I don’t think it matters that you, yourself, are a beginner If you import something you can specify the level it’s at…in theory you could import something that is truly beginner level and specify that is is actually B1. You’d get the option in the 3 dot menu to simplify. However, it may not do much if it is already “easy”. What this is great for is importing something that is above your current level, import it, call it B1, and then use the simplify lesson option. Then you’ll have text more at your level. Still might be enough, and that’s where Peter’s suggestion of using chat gpt comes into play…

Peter’s suggestion is good as well to use Chat GPT to simplify it. You can specify the level you want. i.e. Take the following text and change it so that it’s at an A1 (or A2, or B1, etc.) level. Then paste your text. This works really nicely and gives you a little more flexibility than the “Simplify lesson” option. You then just copy the text and import it into lingq as a lesson. Bamboozled offers the prompt lingq uses in German, but you don’t need to actually do the prompting in German, it’ll modify according to the text you paste in. Of course you can do the prompting in German for some good practice on your writing!