Director: Joy Maisnam

Playwright: Dr. Dharmvir Bharati

Group: TAAM, Manipur

Language: Hindi

Duration: 1 hr 10 mins

The Play

Andha Yug is a verse-play written by Dharmvir Bharati. It is set in the background of the last day of Mahabharata war. Longing for one last act of revenge Ashwatthama releases the Brahmastra, which threatens to destroy the world. The moral centre of the play lies in Krishna. Despite his failure to ensure peace, it is his presence throughout the play which reveals to us that the ethical and the just are always available to human beings even in the worst of times.

Director’s Note

The horrendous tragedy of war is depicted in our play Andha Yug (The Age of Blindness or The Blind Age) through ‘Psycho-Physical’ style. The play’s protagonists are some of the most complex figures of the Mahabharata war, so an attempt is made to represent them in an action oriented form without tampering their originality. All the ethical dilemmas and inner contradictions of the characters are presented with minimum usage of dialogue. Through this play we have conveyed the gruesome impact of power-politics, self-centeredness, humanity – the prime casualty of war and its ethics, lack of vision, and consequence of one’s own moral choices. The performers have used the physical to reach the psychological state of the characters and to depict destruction. An approach with a belief that this significant play of modern India can be portrayed and further glorified without being restricted to the usage of the complete text.

The Director

Joy Maisnam graduated from National School of Drama in 2008. He has done certification from London International School of Performing Arts, London in Devising Theatre and Performance. He is also trained in Yoga, Thang –Ta, Kalari Paitu, Chhau, Silambam, and Kick Boxing. He has directed plays in Manipuri, English and Hindi. He has received Akademi Young Talented Award 2014, Manipur State Kala Akademi; Yuva Natya Samaroh Award 2017, Sahitya Kala Parishad Delhi; and Young Talent Artist Award 2018, Manipur State Kala Akademi.

The Playwright

Dr. Dharmvir Bharati (1926-1997) was a renowned Hindi poet, author, playwright and a social thinker of India. He was the chief editor of the popular Hindi weekly magazine Dharmayug from 1960 till his death in 1997. He was awarded the Padma Shree for literature in 1972 and the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award in 1988. His novel Gunahon Ka Devta became a classic. Bharati’s Suraj ka Satwan Ghoda is considered a unique experiment in story-telling and was made into a National Award-winning film by the same name in 1992 by Shyam Benegal.

The Group

TAAM, Manipur has drawn inspiration from the Indian tradition and has worked to preserve its connection with the country’s ethnic roots, and has done extensive work on folk music and dance, martial arts and acting. Some of the milestone productions of the group are Natak ho hi Nahi Sakta, Mid-Summer Night’s Dream, Loidriba Wari, 9 Days Newspaper (BRM 2013), The Dance and The Railroad (Colombo International Theatre Fest 2015, Bharat Muni Rang Utsav 2017), Binod Maisnam’s ECHO (North East Theatre Festival, Sikkim 2016, National Theatre Festival, Dhampur U.P. 2016), The Journey of Sorrow (13th TFT Festival Chandigarh 2018, Theatre Olympics 2018), The Diary of a Madman (Taiwan International Fest. 2017, Colombo International Theatre Festival 2018, B.V. Karanth Rang Utsav 2018), Andha Yug (Yuva Natya Samaroh 2017, Nat Samarat Natya Mahotsav 2018).

Cast & Credits

Gandhari Sajida

Ashwatthama Mohd. Shahnawaz

Dushasan Saif Siddiqui

Duryodhan Saif Siddiqui

Bhim Madhusudan

Kripacharya Raja Nagar

Vidur Ankit Mishra

Sanjay Fareed Qureshi

Various Roles IrungbamTompok, Dharmendra Singh Gurjar,

MD Irshad, Riya Panwar, Baby Kumari,

Ramjeet, Aashutosh Mishr, Siva Prasad,

Manas Singhal, Irungbam Okenshor,

Robindro Hirom, Ayog Kumar

Dhritarashtra & Hunter Joy Maisnam

Light Design Avtar Sahani

Sound Design Debarati Majumdar

Costume Design Sajida

Set & Poster Design Vipin & Rakesh

Properties Ankit Anand, Siddharth Joshi

Stage Manager Mohan Joshi

Production Manager Jaspreet Kaur

Playwright Dr. Dharmvir Bharti