Dolly Parton’s Imagination Library Inspires a Love of Reading This Spring

Dolly Parton’s Imagination Library welcomes the arrival of spring by celebrating major achievements in literacy while encouraging good reading habits with a colorful selection of spring books!

As of March 2022, Dolly’s childhood literacy program has gifted over 178 million books to children across the U.S., Canada, U.K., Australia, and the Republic of Ireland. As we enter into spring, the Imagination Library continues to inspire more children around the world to Dream More, Learn More, Care More and Be More®!

Celebrating Significant Growth

Thanks to our incredible affiliates and local partners who are dedicated to inspiring a love of reading by gifting books to children, Dolly Parton’s Imagination Library has seen significant growth over the past few months, and the program continues to expand into even more communities around the world.

In Canada, the Imagination Library recently kicked off the province-wide expansion of Dolly’s book gifting program across Newfoundland and Labrador, thanks to an anonymous donor who will cover most of the cost for community partners. And, in the United States, the Imagination Library celebrated National Read Across America Day (March 2) by announcing that the program would be expanding statewide in Washington! Soon, all children under the age of five in the state of Washington will be eligible to receive a free book each month.

On March 17, the Imagination Library was announced as the 2022 Carle Honors Angel honoree by the Eric Carle Museum of Picture Book Art. The Carle Honors celebrate individuals and organizations whose creative vision and long-term dedication have had a profound effect on picture books and the vital role they play in arts appreciation and early literacy. The Angel award, in particular, recognizes those whose generous resources are crucial to making illustrated children’s book art exhibitions, education programs, and related projects a reality. Now in its 16th year, the Carle Honors will be awarded at the Benefit Gala and Art Auction at Guastavino’s in New York City on Thursday, September 29, 2022.

Books for Budding Readers

Dolly Parton’s Imagination Library is dedicated to inspiring a love of reading and learning by gifting books, free of charge to families, through funding shared by Dolly and local community partnerships. Spring is a wonderful time of the year to let your child’s reading skills blossom by opening a good book together! Here are a few of the specially-selected, age-appropriate books going out to registered children this spring.

When the Storm Comes

A storm and its sunny aftermath come to life in "When the Storm Comes,” with gorgeous art by Taeeun Yoo and lyrical text by Linda Ashman.

The Not-So-Great Outdoors

Discover the pleasures of unplugging and embracing nature in this playful picture book, "The Not-So-Great Outdoors," by Madeline Kloepper.

Where is the Very Hungry Caterpillar?

Find out where everyone's favorite caterpillar is hiding in this lift-the-flap book that lets little readers join in the fun as they search for this beloved character by Eric Carle.

New to the Imagination Library?