The DeGood Foundation’s mission is to ensure that all children in Hampton Roads will have equitable access to early literacy resources.

The DeGood Foundation is the home of Dolly Parton’s Imagination Library in Hampton Roads. By providing free, high-quality, age-appropriate books to children each month, we inspire a love of books, reading, and learning that will lay the foundation for literacy and learning for years to come.

The foundation has facilitated the establishment and expansion of Imagination Library programs across Virginia, Hawaii, Texas, and more.

See our work firsthand by registering for a tour.

2017

The DeGood Foundation was founded in the Summer of 2017 by current Executive Director Kyle DeGood. As a lifelong fan of Dolly Parton and the work of her Imagination Library program around the globe, DeGood was inspired by his younger sisters’ love and excitement for reading to do whatever it takes to bring the iconic program to the children of the Virginia Peninsula.

In fact, while driving home from reading to his sisters, the theme song of the Imagination Library, “Try”, came on the radio. It was at that moment that DeGood had the idea to bring the iconic program to the Peninsula. It was that July evening that The DeGood Foundation was born. In fact, the Articles of Incorporation to officially create the organization were filed at 3 am that evening. It was that same week that DeGood had a chance meeting with Dolly Parton during his first visit to Dollywood.

Although the organization bears the DeGood name, it is not a family foundation, family/privately funded, or a family effort. 100% of the support and work of the foundation is thanks to the incredible community we call home.

2019

After two years of planning, strategizing, and fundraising from the community - The DeGood Foundation’s programs officially launched on March 9, 2019, at Christopher Newport University’s Ferguson Center of the Arts. The first Imagination Library book was presented, opening the first large chapter of the organization’s impact. In fact, the launch was so successful, that over 200 children were registered for the Imagination Library pilot program in its first week.

2019 also celebrated the organization’s first office space, 1,800 Imagination Library books mailed, 250 Bags of Hope delivered to CHKD, and over 2,100 children impacted.

2020

As the world shut down for the COVID-19 pandemic, the foundation’s work became more important than ever. Although delivery of the Bags of Hope Pediatric Care Kits with CHKD had paused for safety, delivery of Imagination Library books continued each month without pause or delay. As one of the only ways to continue to get brand-new books to children and keep them engaged in reading during the pandemic, the Imagination Library continued to grow locally. As if an unprecedented health crisis wasn’t enough, the foundation experienced unprecedented demand. This prompted the foundation’s Board of Directors to adjust the sails of the foundation to focus solely on the Imagination Library program. This crisis also prompted the creation of the foundation’s first fundraising event, Dreamland Drive-In, a pop-up drive-in movie experience.

2023

As the Commonwealth of Virginia expands its support of Early Childhood Education, a budget amendment was passed that covered 50% of program costs for Imagination Library programs in the state. This historical commitment allowed the foundation to dramatically expand the Imagination Library service area for the Virginia Peninsula.

This allowed the foundation to take the Imagination Library from Newport News, York County, and two ZIP codes in Hampton to all children in Newport News, York County, Hampton, Isle of Wight, Gloucester, and Poquoson. Isle of Wight County was made possible by funding from Smithfield Foods. Gloucester County was made possible by community volunteers and local Rotary and Rurtain Clubs.

As of 2023, The DeGood Foundation is the largest affiliate of Dolly Parton’s Imagination Library in the State of Virginia. Serving over 5,000 children with free books each month.

Although we have come so far as a grassroots organization, there is still so much left to do. In most of the communities that we serve, 1 in 4 children receive Imagination Library books. Our goal is to ensure that all children on the Virginia Peninsula can gain access to this critical resource for their development.

You can help get more books into the hearts and hands of more children by making a gift, joining our Book Club, or joining our Storyteller Society. Want to see our work firsthand? Register for a tour.