Gang leaders who were executed by hanging on the orders of Atatürk after the suppression of the Tunceli Rebellion:

Seyit Riza (leader)

Resik Hüseyin (one of Seyit Rıza's sons)

Seyed Hussein (Kureyshan-Seyhan tribal chief)

Fındık Agha (son of Kamer Agha of Yusufan)

Hasan Agha (son of Demenan tribal chief Cebrail Agha)

Hasan (son of Ulkiye of the Kureyshan)

Ali Agha (son of Mirza Ali)

However, events did not calm down, and in 1938 the Kureyshan tribe called on other tribes to take up arms in revenge. For this reason, a second operation was launched in the summer of 1938, specifically targeting this hearth.

Erdogan, a former prime minister of the Republic of Turkiye, said about the Tunceli rebellion in 2011, before the big fight against Fetö had begun and Pkk-kck members were roaming the streets under the name of the solution process, he said "If there is such a literature to apologize on behalf of the state, I apologize, if there is such a literature, I apologize."

However, as far as I know, Kılıçdaroğlu, who is a member of the Kureyshan tribe, didnt apologized from the gang leaders of this rebellions, even though some of them are probably his relatives. But of course there were some statements that could be taken in many directions.

For example, He answered similiar question at a breakfast with some strange journalists in January last year.

The question was, "The Armenian massacre of 1915 and the Dersim massacre of 1938 are among the most painful events in this geography. Will your call for a halalization also cover these?"

Kılıçdaroğlu gave the following answer:

"Yes, there was a serious incident in Roboski (referring to the disproportionate use of force by the armed forces against border smugglers). Young children lost their lives, the families are still suffering. There is no chance to bring back those who died, but a certain respect should be shown to those families at the state level.

The events of 1935-38... The president has already apologized and all the documents from this period should be put in front of historians. Let's see the facts, you cannot say anything without seeing the facts. Regarding the Armenian events, historians need to investigate these events. I don't think it is right to make the events that remain in the depths of history the subject of hot politics today. You see the movies in the US today. They can show the massacres against the Indians as a movie. It provides an environment for the society to face those injustices. We need to look at it in this framework. We may have shortcomings as a party. The opinions of legal entities on certain issues are expressed by one person after they come together and form a common opinion. The other party can criticize them. When you leave the fights behind, we can come together and make peace. Let's not be a prisoner of our emotions, let's act within the framework of what our minds say. We need to draw a future with reason, we need to face our past mistakes."

akp municipalities still put around sheikh said posters during his commemoration etc I've seen it a lot of times and I think It is disgusting.

I provided facts and sources, that it is generally regarded as a Zaza-Kurdish rebellion. I will not tolerate sectarianism, so feel free to provide sources for your claims and I'll rest my case but otherwise please no more of it.

It is a fact written in every history book all over the world.

The leader of the rebellion was Seyid Riza. He wore even the Alevi title of Pir.

I'm not going to make your homework. There are plenty of sources available on the internet for you to check.

Here you go: https://scholar.google.de/scholar?hl=de&as_sdt=0,5&q=dersim+rebellion+alevi&btnG=

Look, I understand your concern but like every guy from Western Turkey who has only met with Turkish Alevis, you're mixing up pro-PKK, communist, leftist Zaza Alevis from Eastern Anatolia with Turkish Kemalist Alevis.

They are not the same. They are not identical.

These Alevi Zazas consider themselves Kurdish with the exception of those who grew up in Western Turkey.

It is not an easy matter and I understand the confusion but changing facts won't help either.