Mary Pickford, the silent-film actress once known as “the most popular girl in the world,” spent a considerable amount of time living and working in San Diego County, and once dreamed of settling here.

Pickford filmed movie scenes in Balboa Park, Del Mar and on North Island. She and husband Douglas Fairbanks owned a beach cottage in Oceanside and bought 800 acres near Rancho Santa Fe that is now known as the community of Fairbanks Ranch.

There is renewed interest in Pickford, who co-founded United Artists, the first independent film distribution company.

Encinitas has been chosen by the Library of Congress to host part of a nationwide Mary Pickford film festival this year to celebrate the 100th anniversary of her film debut in 1909.

The event is scheduled for early November – tentative dates are Nov. 6, 7 and 8 – at La Paloma Theatre, which was built on South Coast Highway 101 in the 1920s, as silent films were giving way to “talkies.” La Paloma is still in use as a movie house and venue for stage performances.

The Library of Congress will provide restored versions of several Pickford films. Details of the event have not been finalized.

“We’re in a sense bringing silent film back to La Paloma, and re-creating the experience of 1928 when you would have vaudeville and silent film,” said Jim Gilliam, the city’s arts administrator.

Some say Pickford attended the opening of La Paloma in 1928, and at least one resident remembers seeing the star at the Spanish Mission and art deco theater.

Lola Larson, 83, said she attended the opening gala and, although she was a little girl, immediately recognized Pickford.

“She had a very lovely, filmy dress on, I remember,” Larson said. “I had naturally curly hair and I remember thinking, ‘My goodness, she had hair as curly as mine.’”

Larson, who was 3 at the time, rubbed elbows with Hollywood stars. Her uncle was movie director Hal Roach, famous for his work with Laurel and Hardy and The Little Rascals.

Larson also remembered attending a barbecue in Rancho Santa Fe at which Pickford was a guest. “She was so famous, everybody ‘oohed’ and ‘aahed’ over her.”

Cardiff resident Judith Montague, a playwright who came up with the idea for the film festival, is seeking grant funding to make it an annual event in Encinitas.

Montague said she considers Pickford an important figure in the film industry who helped shape the art form through acting and producing.

“In a span of 12 years, with only a fifth-grade education, she went from the little girl of Broadway supporting her mother and two wayward siblings to one of the most famous people in all the world,” Montague wrote in a draft grant proposal.

Pickford became acquainted with the San Diego area as a halfway point for her frequent trips from Hollywood to Tijuana, a leisure hot spot. She was among many actors who would retreat to Del Mar. In the 1920s, the Hotel Del Mar – where L’Auberge Del Mar now stands – was a popular location for parties, hosting Charlie Chaplin, Rudolph Valentino, Pola Negri and Jack Dempsey. In the 1930s, it drew celebrities including Bing Crosby and Bob Hope.

Pickford was born Gladys Smith in Toronto, according to a soon-to-be-published biography written by Christel Schmidt of the Library of Congress. Schmidt is the curator of a Mary Pickford exhibit expected to open in 2010 in the Library of Congress. Schmidt said Pickford’s breakthrough role was in 1914, when she played a fiery young woman fighting for the underclass in “Tess of the Storm Country.”

“The extraordinary reaction made Pickford an international star and created fan worship that had never before been witnessed,” Schmidt wrote in the biography.

When she cut off her famous long curls after the death of her mother in 1928, it made the front page of The New York Times.

Pickford starred in many films, using her petite size and youthful beauty to convincingly portray children in stories adapted from popular novels. When sound became standard in the late 1920s, she boldly made the transition to “talkies.”

Three of her early films were shot locally: “Tess of the Storm Country” (1914) in Del Mar; “A Girl of Yesterday” (1915) on North Island; and “Rosita” (1923) in Balboa Park. That’s according to “Filming San Diego: Hollywood’s Backlot, 1898-2002,” published in “The Journal of San Diego History.”

Pickford was known as a tough negotiator who took charge of her career. In 1919, she co-founded United Artists with Fairbanks, her future husband, as well as Charlie Chaplin and director D.W. Griffith. At the time, Hollywood studios controlled the production and distribution of films, as well as the theaters. United Artists broke from this practice by offering distribution services to independent film producers.

She and Fairbanks were each married when they met. After their divorces, they wed in 1920, and feared a negative reaction from the public – “but their union only fed into the romantic fantasies many fans had about Hollywood,” Schmidt wrote.

The couple liked the San Diego area so much that in 1924, they bought 800 acres of orange groves along the San Dieguito River near Rancho Santa Fe. Pickford and Fairbanks called the land Rancho Zorro for Fairbanks’ 1920 film, “The Mark of Zorro,” and planned to build a grand Spanish hacienda on the property.

That plan was interrupted by their divorce in 1936. Before that, however, they built a dam and pump house, dug wells and created a 7-acre lake stocked with fish on the property. They also planted citrus trees and acres of beans, tomatoes and grain to feed cattle that roamed the area, according to a story published in 1988 in The San Diego Union.

The 1988 story said that Pickford “rhapsodized about the dairy and proposed hacienda where she would ‘work with the butter and the cream’ and create a kitchen ‘typically Spanish, with bright old peasant dressers and furnishings and utensils.’”

During their 16-year marriage, Pickford and Fairbanks also owned a beach cottage on Pacific Street in Oceanside that’s now a vacation rental. The owner, Kim Dillon, said the house came with a 1920s Venetian glass pendant chandelier that she believes was purchased by Pickford.

“I don’t have any documentation, but one of her movies was filmed in Venice the year it was made,” Dillon said.

There are also indications that Pickford and Fairbanks stayed at the Edelweiss House, a gingerbread-trim house on 10th Street in Del Mar.

A 1969 newspaper clipping from The Evening Tribune says: “Fairbanks, Miss Pickford and other stars of silent movies held many gatherings and at least one wedding party at the house.” The article mentions that books found at the house – two volumes with pictures of Italy – had bookplates identifying them as property of Fairbanks and Pickford.

The house is owned by Bradford Allison and Julie Maxey, who are researching old city documents to try to find evidence of the connection.

“Ever since I lived here,” Maxey said, “people have said that they were here.”