Biographical History

Leopold von Ranke (1795-1886) was a German historian and historiographer. He was highly influential in shaping the modern approach to history, emphasizing such things as reliance on primary sources, narrative history and international politics. He rejected the idea that each era is by definition superior to those that preceded it, as well as the idea of sweeping historical theories that attempt to encompass huge swathes of time and geography.

Ranke's personal and professional library, consisting of more than 10,000 books, several hundred manuscripts and approximately 5 linear ft. of personal papers, was purchased for Syracuse University in 1887 and formed the nucleus of what is now the Syracuse University Special Collections Research Center (SCRC).

Theodor Weidemann, whose bibliographic aids about the manuscripts are also included in the collection, was Ranke's amanuensis for the last fifteen years of his life.

Return to top

Scope and Contents of the Collection

The Leopold von Ranke Manuscript Collection consists of 104 bound manuscripts and 326 unbound manuscripts or parts of manuscripts. The largest single type consists of Venetian ambassadors' reports from the various capitals of Europe. There are also several Venetian chronicles, nuncios' reports to the pope, political documents from Tuscany, and a chronicle of Nuremberg.

The collection also contains research and reference material of various kinds about Ranke's library in general and about the manuscripts in particular. The bulk of this consists of extensive bibliographical notes compiled by Theodor Weidemann, Ranke's amanuensis for the last fifteen years of his life.

Return to top

Restrictions

Access Restrictions

The majority of our archival and manuscript collections are housed offsite and require advanced notice for retrieval. Researchers are encouraged to contact us in advance concerning the collection material they wish to access for their research.

Use Restrictions

Written permission must be obtained from SCRC and all relevant rights holders before publishing quotations, excerpts or images from any materials in this collection.

Return to top

Related Material

The personal and professional library of Leopold von Ranke, consisting of more than 10,000 books, several hundred manuscripts and approximately 5 linear ft. of personal papers, was purchased for Syracuse University in 1887 and formed the nucleus of what is now the Special Collections Research Center (SCRC) at Syracuse University.

The manuscripts, containing items in numerous languages dating back to the 16th century, comprise this, the Leopold von Ranke Manuscript Collection.

The personal and family papers, along with some bibliographic material about Ranke's library, constitute the Leopold von Ranke Papers.

The more than 10,000 volumes of Ranke's personal library, containing many works on historical, political and literary subjects dating from the 16th to 19th centuries and in numerous European languages, have been transfered to Rare Books for cataloging. They are accessible via Libraries Search .

Manuscripts are also available on microfilm.

Return to top