Topline

A cacophony of early 2000s music icons will hit the stage this summer for the “Out of This World: The Missy Elliott Experience" tour that will see the "Get Ur Freak On" singer headline a tour for the first time with the support of Ciara, Busta Rhymes, and Timbaland.

Key Facts

Key Background

Missy Elliott (born Melissa Arnette Elliott) is a hip hop and R&B artist who started her career as a member of the Swing Mob, a collective of artists that included Timbaland and Sista, the band Elliott was a member of at the time. She left Sista in the late 1990s and started working with Timbaland as a songwriting and production team, creating songs for artists like Aaliyah and Destiny's Child. She released her first album, "Supa Dupa Fly" in 1997 and went on to release five more before her last in 2005. "Sock It 2 Me" was the first song she led to make it to the Billboard Hot 100, peaking at No. 12 in 1997. In total, 33 songs on which she is either the main performer or features on have made it on the Hot 100 chart. She has won four Grammy Awards—best solo rap performance, best female rap solo performance (twice) and best short form music video. She was given a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2021, the same year she was inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame. She was the first female rapper to be nominated and inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame last year.

Surprising Fact

Variety ranked a Missy Elliott show from last May as one of the best concerts of 2023. The performance at a resort/casino in Highland, California led to Elliott being praised as "the full package: looking great, sounding great, energized by the crowd and buoyed by her own natural bon vivant-ancy, on top of the production values you’d expect from a show built to travel."

Further Reading

VarietyMissy Elliott to Embark on First Headlining Tour Ever, With Busta Rhymes, Ciara and Timbaland as SupportRolling StoneMissy Elliott Taps Ciara, Timbaland Busta Rhymes for Her First-Ever Headlining TourForbesMissy Elliott Becomes First Female Hip-Hop Artist To Be Inducted Into The Songwriters Hall Of Fame