TIKTOK ◉ INSTAGRAM ◉ TWITTER ◉ FACEBOOK ◉ OFFICIAL WEBSITE

Dark Divine is: Anthony Martinez (vocals), Robby Lynch (guitar) and Triston Blaize (drums.) "Deep into that darkness peering, long I stood there, wondering, fearing, doubting, dreaming dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before.” You may recognize this passage from Edgar Allan Poe’s iconic poem, "The Raven." Darkness has a certain divine power over us. It can instill uncertainty and fear while simultaneously enamoring us with a romanticized feeling of mystery and despair. It is a force that we are undeniably drawn to. Whether it be a horror movie, a haunted house, or a song that captures its sinister essence, darkness has a way of pulling us in and Dark Divine has mastered the art of capturing that essence. Hailing from Orlando, FL this Hard Rock act shows us a side of darkness that brings a sentiment of anguish mixed with a sincere notion of understanding. The band’s new single "Paper Crown(feat. Bryan Kuznitz of Fame On Fire,)" premiered on Octane is the newest release of the band's growing discography. -- ""Paper Crown" is a song about confronting people with narcissistic tendencies. It is often that we find ourselves putting our own mental health at risk in an effort to please those who only want to hurt us. The toxicity that bleeds from narcissistic personalities can greatly reduce our standards for behavior that we are willing to tolerate." Says frontman Anthony Martinez about the single. “Dancing Dead” and "Drown" are hair-raising tracks, immersing fans in a fear-stricken world. These singles serve as follow-up songs to the band's previously released singles, found on their EP,Halloweentown,and “Circles” showcases Dark Divine’s horror-driven atmosphere in a theatrical way. Conceptual ideology aside, the band brings hard hitting instrumentation and a vocal power that stands to cement the act as a fresh mainstay of the hard rock and metal genres for years to come. Dark Divine have garnered early and notable support from Octane around their song “Halloweentown” and playlist support from Spotify's Rock Hard and Apple Music's Breaking Metal. Dark Divine has received press support from outlets such as idobi Radio, Outburn Magazine and New Noise Magazine. “The confines of Florida have seen some absolutely epic bands make names for themselves, but it’s time to look to the future. There is a quickly rising band that is making all the right moves in all the right places. Dark Divine is playing all the right cards.” Says New Noise about the band. The band continues to grow their die-hard fanbase of "reapers" who show their devotion at every show. They have also recently shared the stage with Famous Last Words, Limbs, Until I Wake and label mates Catch Your Breath and The Word Alive. Fans can catch the band in support of Black Veil Brides and VV on their North American tour this fall. "This tour is a dream come true and will be something special. Dark Divine is new to the scene but garnering a lot of attention quickly and rightfully so. They are hands down one of the best young bands out there, and we are certain the BVB Army and VV fans will love them." Andy Biersack / Black Veil Brides frontman says regarding their upcoming tour. Dark Divine's debut albumDeadly Fun,produced by Zach Jones (Chelsea Grin, We Came As Romans, Fit For A King) out now via Thriller Records.