Synopsis

Traders said that though the government is set to introduce mandatory hallmarking for 14, 18 and 22-carat jewellery from January 2018.

KOLKATA: The gold industry has sought clarity from the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) on hallmarking of 20-carat and 23-carat jewellery that is widely used in rural India.

Traders said that though the government is set to introduce mandatory hallmarking for 14, 18 and 22-carat jewellery from January 2018, there is still no clarity on the non-hallmarked jewellery stock lying with them.

"We need to have clarity on the hallmarking policy of the government.We also want to know whether the customer will be asked to pay a hallmarking charge of Rs 35 per piece of jewellery in the new scenario," said Nitin Khandelwal, chairman of All India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation.

While 14-carat jewellery means 58.33% purity, 18 carat means 75% purity and 22 carat means 91.6% purity of these, 14 carat and 18 carat gold are used for studded jewellery and for exports, besides sale in urban India, and 22 carat gold is used largely for wedding jewellery. Apart from these three categories, 20 carat and 23 carat jewellery are also used widely used in rural parts of India, Khandelwal said.

Rural India accounts for 60% of India's gold consumption. India consumes 800-850 tonnes of gold a year.

Harshad Ajmera, president of Indian Association of Hallmarking Centre, said that it is expected that the government to give three to six months to traders for selling their non-hallmarked stock. “Melting the gold available with jewellers will not solve the problem and the trade would suffer,“ he said.

There are enough hallmarking centres in the country to handle the volume of gold sold in the country, Ajmera said.

At present there are 500 hallmarking centres in the country, with greater concentration in cities than in districts, he said.

"In manufacturing pockets such as Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Kolkata, Delhi, Coimbatore and Chennai, there are 25 centres each," Ajmera said. "From this area maximum jewellery is manufactured and dispatched to different showrooms via traders. In the district areas hallmarking is done through logistics tie-ups with the hallmarking centres."

In 2016-17, 475 hallmarking centres handled 31.6 million pieces of jewellery, with a total volume of 475 tonnes."According to our calculation, each of the centres hallmarked 221 pieces of jewellery per day. The capacity utilisation is not optimum as each of these hallmarking centres can handle 2,000 pieces of gold per day," he said.

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News, Budget 2024 Events and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News, Budget 2024 Events and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless

Why success of Blackstone’s repeat IT bet depends on these ifs and buts

Your EV is 40% Chinese, and will remain so if this jigsaw is not solved

Three reasons why Mumbai, NCR beat Bengaluru in the IPO treasure hunt

Is the great Indian snacking boom slowing down finally?

Stock Radar: Laurus Labs likely to find support above lower band of rectangular pattern; time to buy?

How fintech startups are dealing with bleak credit cards outlook

1

2

3