Jamal Nicholas “Mally” Brown was born Feb. 8, 1995, in New Orleans, just a few minutes after his twin brother, Jonathan Alvarez Brown.

Right from the very beginning of life, Jamal was happy and energetic.

In 1997, Jamal’s mother, Barbara Monica Hubbard, passed away, leaving the boy’s father, Joseph Christopher Brown, to care for six boys. Joseph later met and married Patrice Fleming, and Patrice became a mother to the boys.

When Jamal was 5 years old, his parents became members of Smoking for Jesus Ministry under the leadership of Pastor Willie L. Monnet Sr.

His passion and desire to serve the Lord was as big as his heart. Jamal was active in many different ministries at Smoking for Jesus, including the Children’s Choir, Youth Ablaze for Jesus Christ and Re-Sound Youth Rap Ministry, through which he was a bright light to many other youth members.

As Mally became a young man, he joined the Young Adult Ministry “Transition.”

Mally was a selfless, respectful young man of God who loved to spread the word of Christ to everyone. Mally would talk to anyone — he never met a stranger; making you laugh was his specialty.

Upon relocating to Burnet, Texas, Jamal began participating in multiple sports. He enjoyed baseball and track and field; but Mally’s favorite sport was football, and he wore the No. 5.

He also enjoyed the great outdoors, a passion shared with his brothers, his dad and even his little sister. Hunting in the woods was truly a family affair.

Jamal received his glorified body on Feb. 12, 2016.

He was preceded in death by his mother, Barbara Hubbard, and grandfather Reginald Fleming.

Jamal is survived by his parents, Joseph Christopher Brown Jr. and Patrice Angelle Brown; grandparents Narve Lee Hubbard Barrymore, Joseph Christopher Brown Sr. and Joyce Mae Brown and Wanda Marie Fleming; siblings, Ronald Sims, Eric Christopher Fleming, Roni Narvel Sims, Joseph Christopher “Joey” Brown III, Jonathan Alvarez Brown, Brandon Joel Brown and Nyla Minnie Brown; and a host of other relatives and friends.

Mally always made it a point to say “I love you” before leaving you. Please join us as we say “I love you” to Jamal Nicholas Brown at 9 a.m. Feb. 27 at Smoking for Jesus Ministry officiated by Pastor Willie L. Monnet Sr. He will be laid to rest at Lakeland Hills Memorial Park Cemetery. A repass will follow at Smoking for Jesus Ministry.

Please share memories of Mally with his family by visiting www.crawfordbowers.org.