Vilnius is the capital city of Lithuania. It is also the largest city in that country. Vilnius is the largest city and the capital of Lithuania, with a population of 553,904 (850,700 together with Vilnius County) as of December 2005. It is the seat of the Vilnius city municipality and of the Vilnius district municipality. It is also the capital of Vilnius County. Vilnius lies 312 kilometres (194 mi) from the Baltic Sea and Klaipėda, the chief Lithuanian seaport. Vilnius is connected by highways to other major Lithuanian cities, such as Kaunas (102 km/63 mi away), Šiauliai (214 km/133 mi away) and Panevėžys (135 km/84 mi away).

History

See History of Vilnius

Population

According to the 2001 census by the Vilnius Regional Statistical Office, there were 542,287 inhabitants in the Vilnius city municipality, of which 57.8% were Lithuanians, 18.7% Poles, 14% Russians, 4.0% Belarusians, 1.3% Ukrainians and 0.5% Jews.

Climate

The climate of Vilnius is considered as Humid Continental or Hemiboreal by Köppen climate classification. Summers can be hot, with temperatures above thirty degrees Celsius throughout the day. Winters can be very cold, with temperatures rarely reaching above freezing

Tourism

Vilnius is a cosmopolitan city with diverse architecture. There are more than 40 churches in Vilnius. Restaurants, hotels and museums have sprouted since Lithuania declared independence.

Like most medieval towns, Vilnius was developed around its Town Hall. The Old Town, the historical centre of Vilnius, is one of the largest in Europe (3.6 km²). The most valuable historic and cultural sites are concentrated here. The main sights of the city are Gediminas Castle and Cathedral Square, symbols of the capital. The Old Town of Vilnius was inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List in 1994. In 1995, the first bronzecast of Frank Zappa in the world was installed near the center of Vilnius with the permission of the government.

Economy

Vilnius is the major economic centre of Lithuania and one of the largest financial centres of the Baltic states.

Education

The city has many universities. The biggest are:

Vilnius University

Vilnius Gediminas Technical University

Mykolas Romeris University

Vilnius Pedagogical University

Specialized higher schools with the university status are:

General Jonas Žemaitis Military Academy of Lithuania

Lithuanian Academy of Music and Theatre

Vilnius Academy of Fine Arts

National M. K. Čiurlionis School of Art

Religion

Vilnius is the Roman Catholic center of the country, with the main church institutions and Archdiocesan Cathedral located here. There are many churches in the city as there are many monasteries and religion schools. The Church architecture in the city includes Gothic, Renaissance, Baroque and Neoclassical styles, these styles can be foundin the Old Town. Vilnius is considered one of the main centers of the Polish Baroque movement in architecture of churches. Vilnius has been home to an Eastern Orthodox Christian presence since the thirteenth century. A famous Russian Orthodox monastery, named for the Holy Spirit, is located near the Gate of Dawn. St. Paraskeva's Orthodox Church in the Old Town is the site of the baptism of Hannibal, the great-grandfather of Pushkin, by Tsar Peter the Great in 1705. A number of Protestant and other Christian groups are present in Vilnius, most notably the Lutheran Evangelicals and the Baptists.

Once widely known as Yerushalayim De Lita (the "Jerusalem of Lithuania"), Vilnius once was comparable only to Jerusalem, Israel, as a world center for the study of the Torah, and for its large Jewish population. That is why one part of Vilnius was named Jeruzalė. At the end of the 19th century, the number of synagogues in Vilnius was more than hundred.

Islam came to Lithuania in the 14th century from Crimea and Kazan, through the Tatars. Tatars in Lithuania have maintained their religious practices: currently, about 3,000 Tatar Muslims live in Lithuania. There are same few groups of pre-Christian pagan in the city.

Subdivisions

The city of Vilnius is made up of 21 elderates that are based on neighbourhoods:

Verkiai — includes Baltupiai, Jeruzalė, Santariškės, Balsiai, Visoriai

Antakalnis — includes Valakampiai, Turniškės, Dvarčionys

Pašilaičiai — includes Tarandė

Fabijoniškės — includes Bajorai

Pilaitė

Justiniškės

Viršuliškės

Šeškinė

Šnipiškės

Žirmūnai — includes Šiaurės miestelis

Karoliniškės

Žvėrynas

Grigiškės — a separate town included in the Vilnius city municipality

Lazdynai

Vilkpėdė — includes Vingis park

Naujamiestis — includes bus and train stations

Senamiestis (Old Town) — includes Užupis

Naujoji Vilnia — includes Pavilnys, Pūčkoriai

Paneriai — includes Trakų Vokė, Gariūnai

Naujininkai — includes Kirtimai, Salininkai, Vilnius International Airport

Rasos — includes Belmontas, Markučiai

Transport

Motorways

Vilnius is the starting point of the Vilnius-Kaunas-Klaipėda motorway that runs across Lithuania and connects the three major cities. The Vilnius-Panevėžys motorway is a branch of the Via-Baltica.

Airports

Vilnius International Airport serves most Lithuanian international flights to many major European destinations.

Public Transport

Vilnius has a public transportation system. There are over 60 bus and 19 trolleybus routes, the trolleybus network is one of the biggest in Europe. Over 250 buses and 260 trolleybuses transport about 500,000 people every day. In the end of year 2007 a new electronic monthly ticket system was introduced.

Sister cities

Vilnius has 14 sister cities.

Akhisar, Turkey

Aalborg, Denmark

Budapest, Hungary

Chicago, United States

Duisburg, Germany

Erfurt, Germany

Joensuu, Finland

Kiev, Ukraine

St.Petersburg, Russia

Kraków, Poland

Madison, United States

Oslo, Norway

Pavia, Italy

Piraeus, Greece

Salzburg, Austria

Taipei, Taiwan

Warsaw, Poland

Donetsk, Ukraine

Images for kids

Iron Wolf

King Mindaugas Monument

Palace of the Grand Dukes of Lithuania and Grand Duke Gediminas Monument with the howling iron wolf

La Grande Armée in Vilnius during its retreat (near the Vilnius Town Hall). In the beginning of invasion of Russia, Napoleon established the Lithuanian Provisional Governing Commission and the nobility seen him as a liberator.

In 1905, the Great Seimas of Vilnius took place in the current Lithuanian National Philharmonic Society building

House of the Signatories in Vilnius

Lithuanian Army tanks in Vilnius after establishing control of the capital

Povilas Plechavičius, commander of the LTDF

The former KGB headquarters in Vilnius, now the Museum of Occupations and Freedom Fights

Gediminas Avenue in autumn

Neris River at Mindaugas Bridge with Vilnius Upper Castle in the distance. A favorable geographic location made the Upper Castle on the Gediminas' Hill unconquerable for hundreds of years.

Foggy winter sunrise in Vilnius

Gothic wall frescoes of the Church of St. Francis and St. Bernard (16th century)

Lithuanian Girl with Palm Sunday Fronds by Kanutas Ruseckas

Vilnius Picture Gallery in the old town (former Chodkiewicz Palace)

Zawadzki bookstore on the present-day Pilies Street. The store banners are printed in five languages: Russian, Polish, Lithuanian, French, German.

Gate of the Basilian Monastery where poet Adam Mickiewicz was imprisoned for fighting the Russian rule

The Institute of Lithuanian Literature and Folklore (Vileišis Palace)

Billboard above the Botanical Garden (now Bernardinai Garden) main gates of the first cinema screening in Vilnius (1897)

Lithuanian Theater, Music and Cinema Museum, located in the 17th century Minor Radvilos Palace

Libretto of the first opera staged in Vilnius (1636), which overtook the first operas in Paris (1645) and London (1656)

Lithuanian Song and Dance Festival in Vingis Park

Andrius Mamontovas, leader of Foje and founder of the annual Gatvės muzikos diena (Street Music Day)

Page in Latin of theatre program dedicated to Algirdas (1687), once performed in Vilnius

Lithuanian National Drama Theatre

Kaziuko mugė is held annually in the city in honor of Saint Casimir

Krzysztof Mikołaj "Perkūnas" Radziwiłł (Voivode of Vilnius from 1584 to 1603). Due to his prominent victories versus Ivan the Terrible's troops during the Livonian War, he was nicknamed "the Thunderbolt" (Perkūnas).

Vilnius Town Hall, reconstructed in neoclassical style according to the design by Laurynas Gucevičius in 1799

New Vilnius city municipality building in Konstitucijos Avenue

Medininkai Castle, built in the first half of the 14th century. It is the largest enclosure type defensive castle in Lithuania and one of the primary landmarks of the Vilnius district.

Seimas Palace in Vilnius, where the parliamentarians of Lithuania convenes

St. Anne's Church and the Church of St. Francis and St. Bernard are an outstanding examples of Gothic architecture in Lithuania

The 17th century Chapel of Saint Casimir, a patron saint of Lithuania and its youth, in the Cathedral of Vilnius

Vilnius Old Town apartments offers views to the most notable landmarks of the city and a medieval atmosphere

Part of Valakampiai neighborhood in Antakalnis eldership by the Neris River as seen from Verkiai Palace

Šnipiškės in the 19th century with the Chapel of Jesus of Šnipiškės

Grand Duke Sigismund II Augustus (a direct offspring of Gediminas by the man's line) and Grand Duchess Barbara Radziwiłł in Vilnius. The city prospered during his reign and the Golden Age.

Manifesto of the Uprising of 1794 in Lithuanian, encouraging Lithuanians to defend Vilnius from falling under the Russian control. The Grand Duchy's capital was nearly empty when the uprising failed and in 1795 the state was abolished after the Third Partition.

Pagan Lithuanians worshipping a grass snake, oak and holy fire. From Olaus Magnus' Historia de Gentibus Septentrionalibus (History of the Northern People), book 3, 1555.

Multicultural Vilnians in 1915. The city was famous for its tolerance of various ethnicities till World War I.

Europa Tower is the tallest building in the Baltic states and is one of the symbols of modern Vilnius and its economic growth

K29 business centre is the first office in the Baltic states which received excellent BREEAM rating

Scientific centres and universities faculties in the Sunrise Valley

Virginijus Šikšnys is a prominent biochemist of the Vilnius University

View to Žvėrynas eldership from Naujamiestis with the Green Hall business centre visible, which houses IT companies and the Europe's first international Blockchain Centre

The Bank of Lithuania headquarters in Gediminas Avenue

The Grand Courtyard of Vilnius University and Church of St. Johns

National M. K. Čiurlionis School of Art is a prestigious art school, offering free education to talented Lithuanians

One of the 16th century Central Vilnius University Library reading rooms, decorated in 1803 with the portraits of the 12 most prominent figures in antiquity art and science

Church of St. Casimir, the first Baroque church in Vilnius, known for excellent acoustics and organ concerts with renowned international musicians

Choral Synagogue of Vilnius

The interior of the Chapel of the Gate of Dawn with the holy Our Lady of the Gate of Dawn painting

The first Divine Mercy painting by Eugeniusz Kazimirowski (1934) at the Divine Mercy Sanctuary, Vilnius

Three Crosses in Kalnai Park

Singing fountain in Bernardinai Garden

Tourists in the Old Town of Vilnius

The Republic of Užupis is a tourists frequently visited micronation in Vilnius, full of Bohemian culture and art

Grand Hotel Kempinski Vilnius

Siemens Arena

Vilnius International Airport main entrance

Carsharing company SPARK car and an EV charging station in Vilnius

Solaris Urbino 18 bus and Škoda 26Tr Solaris trolleybuses in Vilnius

House in which the Vilnius Medical Society was established in 1805

The title page of Kurier Litewski (1760, Vilnius)

See also