Postal Codes of Slovakia

Czechs and Slovaks postal codes were introduced in 1973 in Czechoslovakia and are valid still today. The first digit of the postal code system corresponds to the old borders of Czechoslovakia in 1960. In Czech, the postal code is called Poštovní směrovací číslo and Poštové smerovacie číslo in Slovenian. They are managed by Českà pošta and Slovenskà pošta and consist of five digits as xxx yy. The first two numbers represent the geographical division. The postal codes start with a digit to define the area more to the west of the country and then go crescendo towards the east of the country. The Slovak ZIP code starts with zero or nine. Postal codes beginning with zero represent the central or eastern part of Slovakia, while nine represents Western countries.

Here you will find a detailed list of cheaters neighborhoods:

1 Hlavní město Praha

2 Středočeský kraj

3 Jihočeský kraj and kraj Zapadocesky

4 Severocesky kraj

5 Vychodocesky kraj and the South Moravian Region

6 South Moravia

7 Severomoravsky kraj

8 Bratislava Region, Slovakia

9 Zàpadoslovenský kraj and kraj Stredoslovenský (western part), Slovakia

0 Stredoslovenský kraj (eastern) and Vychodoslovensky kraj, Slovakia

The ZIP of Bratislava is between 00 800 and 00 899, and zip code Presov is 080 01. If the postal code you're looking for is not listed, we suggest you to use our ZIP codes searching.

Sending packages from Italy to Slovakia

Do you need to send a package to Slovakia? Choose the services of europacco.com! europacco.com offers the simplest, fastest and most affordable solution. Simply fill in the online form, print the label and attach it to the package. It takes only a few minutes and your package is ready for collection. Send your letters, packages and pallets quickly and easily without registration. We only work with the best express couriers: UPS, GLS, DPD, DB Schenker, OMEST Express Logistics and BRT.

Sending parcels to Slovakia

Whether you are sending a package to Bratislava, Kosice, Nitra or Banska Bystrica, we are bringing your parcels quickly and safely to their destination. europacco.com offers tailor-made service solutions. It is a safe and reliable way to send your company documents, patterns, samples or products. In addition you can send bulky holiday souvenirs and excess baggage or your whole suitcase to Slovakia. A courier brings it right to your doorstep. Upon request you can also send wine to Slovakia. europacco.com offers fast and simple service.

Customs check Slovakia

Slovakia is a member of the European Union. Within the EU no customs documents are required. Letters, packages and pallets are not checked at the borders. In order to prevent illegal consignments, packages are scanned and randomly inspected.