Linklaters hits White & Case in Stockholm for new banking head

Linklaters has made its first lateral hire in Sweden for two years, recruiting a new head of its banking and finance practice from White & Case. Magnus Wennerhorn joins the magic circle firm having previously been co-head of White & Case’s debt finance practice in the Swedish capital. Wennerhorn spent almost two decades at his […]

Bech-Bruun CEO becomes firm’s latest high-profile leaver

The CEO of Danish big five firm Bech-Bruun is set to leave the firm later this year, marking the latest in a number of exits the firm has seen in 2024. Christian Ejvin Andersen formally resigned from the firm this month and will see out a six-month notice period. He joined Bech-Bruun in 2014 from […]

Pinsent Masons trials half-day Fridays

Pinsent Masons is giving all employees Friday afternoons off this August as part of a new flexible working trial. Subject to client demand, employees in offices across the UK, Europe and Middle East can work a compressed week and leave by lunchtime on Fridays without a pay cut. The compressed hours trial is nearing the […]

Hengeler rules out further partnership changes after non-equity introduction

Hengeler Mueller’s co-managing partner has ruled out any further dramatic changes to its partnership, as the German firm gears up to welcome its first salaried members in the new year. The introduction of a salary partner tier in May 2023 was a significant deviation from the conservative culture at Hengeler Mueller. It stood as a […]

Kirkland hits Latham for Frankfurt office launch

Kirkland & Ellis has announced the launch of its second German office with the hire of a key corporate partner from Latham & Watkins. Tobias Larisch will make the move over to Kirkland as the firm opens its doors in Frankfurt. This will extend Kirkland’s German office network beyond Munich, where its office is nearly […]

The Passport: Introducing Mayer Brown’s new hires in Paris

Welcome to The Passport, your regular round-up of the most important stories to come from the European legal market. In this edition, we introduce you to Mayer Brown’s new Paris team and tell you how the personal relationships sealed the deal; what the freshly de-merged CGR Avocats means when it talks about being a “last […]

Mitsubishi UFJ launches trainee scheme with Flex Legal

Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group’s EMEA legal team has launched a trainee solicitor scheme in partnership with Flex Legal. Five new graduates have been hired into the team, with four based in London and one in Dubai. Two of the recruits will join as apprentices. The bank will offer these trainees the opportunity to qualify as […]

Two lawyers blacklisted by UK M&A watchdog

The City of London’s mergers and acquisitions watchdog Takeover Panel has given 10 individuals, including two lawyers, the “cold shoulder” after what has been described as the “most complex investigation” in the history of the organisation. Camille Froidevaux and Patrice Huguenin, both of Swiss firm Budin Associés’ Geneva office, were hit with the sanction – […]

Eversheds hits local Warsaw firm to launch arbitration practice

Eversheds Sutherland has introduced a new arbitration and complex commercial disputes practice at its Warsaw office with the hire of three lawyers from local firm Kochański & Partners. The practice is expected to support both local and international clients in proceedings before arbitration institutions and Poland’s common courts. It will work as part of Eversheds’ […]

The Passport: It’s finally happened – Dentons has been dethroned

Welcome to The Passport, your regular round-up of the most important stories to come from the European legal market. In this edition, we look at how CMS zoomed past Dentons in the Polish lawyer headcount stakes; why you might have to get used to the idea of three firms with ‘Snellman’ in their name; and […]

European 100 firm splits into two boutiques

The French legal market has welcomed a new boutique this week as CGR Avocats opens its doors following the breakup of its predecessor firm earlier this year. European 100 firm LPA-CGR Avocats finally split in May, bringing an end to the seven-year partnership between Lefèvre Pelletier & Associés and CGR Legal. CGR Avocats relaunched at […]

Spotlight: Bredin Prat prepares for wave of ESG disputes

A turbulent election and the upcoming Paris Olympics: there’s plenty of eyes on France this summer. As its people gear up to celebrate la Fête Nationale Française, Bastille Day, this Sunday, we turn our attention to Bredin Prat and the French disputes market. The market: With a seat of the Unified Patents Court (UPC) and […]

Paris consolidation heats up as Mayer Brown hires 30-strong team

Mayer Brown has followed hotly on Paul Hastings’ heels to strengthen significantly in Paris, hiring 30 lawyers from a local firm. The Lawyer understands that Mayer Brown is hiring two-thirds of the total lawyer headcount at French firm Ayache to bolster its transactional team in the French capital. Altogether, The Lawyer understands that seven Ayache corporate/M&A […]

Danish firm cuts roles amid real estate downturn

Danish big five firm Accura has made a handful of redundancies in its real estate team, citing sustained macroeconomic pressures that have supressed deal flow. The firm declined to specify how many lawyers in its team had left the firm, instead calling the move a “minor adjustment of the real estate organisation to the current […]

Noerr’s Warsaw goes solo in ongoing CEE restructure

Noerr’s Warsaw office is setting up shop on its own, after it emerged that the German giant was pulling out of the Central and Eastern European market (CEE). In April, Noerr revealed it would be transferring its practices in Bratislava, Budapest, Bucharest and Prague to Kinstellar. At the time, there was no mention of Noerr’s […]

The Passport: Linklaters downsizes in Stockholm

Welcome to The Passport, your regular round-up of the most important stories to come from the European legal market. In this edition, we look at the troubles facing Linklaters in Stockholm, the surprisingly positive consequences of Weil Gotshal’s exit from Central and Eastern Europe, as well as recent shake-ups in the Danish real estate market. […]

Paul Hastings takes on 12-strong team from Paris boutique

Paul Hastings’ Paris office is set for a major boost in its white collar practice, with the arrival of a team from a local firm. The firm has taken on specialist boutique firm Antonin Lévy & Associés. Its team will join Paul Hastings from September 2024, comprised of three partners and nine associates. Partners Antonin […]

Bech-Bruun loses three partners to Nordic rivals

Bech-Bruun has lost a handful partners to rival firms, with Norwegian-headquartered firm Schjødt and big five rival Gorrissen Federspiel both profiting from the exits. Litigation partners Søren Lundsgaard and Arianne Svardal-Stelmer will join Schjødt in the firm’s most substantial disputes expansion of its 18-month old Copenhagen office. The pair joined Bech-Bruun in a merger between […]

Elections are a nightmare wherever you are

Roughly 40 per cent of the earth’s population have already been through, or are set to go through, general elections in their country at some point this year. We were expecting them in India, the UK and the US, among many others, but France didn’t have anything of the sort booked in. The success of […]

Spotlight: The disputes boutique taking cues from Quinn

This week on Spotlight, we’re taking a closer look at a rapidly expanding disputes boutique, which has followed the blueprint laid out clearly by Quinn Emanuel’s John Quinn.

Linklaters team defects in Stockholm

A seven-lawyer real estate team led by one of Linklaters’ longest-serving partners in Stockholm has left the firm to join a local player. Longstanding real estate partner Magnus Lidman retired from the Linklaters partnership earlier this year, but has re-emerged as the star name among this group leaving to join Sweden’s Gernandt & Danielsson (G&D). […]

TV show triggers partner dismissal and internal review at Euro 100 firm

Danish firm Horten is undertaking a thorough internal review following the release of a TV documentary series that engulfed the firm in scandal and resulted in the dismissal of a key partner. The firm published a statement last week saying that insolvency partner Nicolai Dyhr had left the firm with immediate effect and that it […]

$300m Ukrainian aircraft claim thrown out by Commercial Court

As the mammoth Russian aircraft claim make its way to trial in October, a similar case involving jets stranded in Ukraine has been struck out. The smaller Ukrainian aircraft claim has been stayed by the Commercial Court in a judgment handed down today. Aircraft lessor claimants represented by Herbert Smith Freehills, Hausfeld and McGuireWoods have […]

The Passport: Latham’s City office is steaming ahead of Germany

Welcome to The Passport, your regular round-up of the most important stories to come from the European legal market. In this edition we compare and contrast Latham’s City performance and how it’s faring in Germany; and why A&O Shearman associates in Central and Eastern Europe might be better off looking for partnership elsewhere. Latham’s German […]

De Brauw faces further challenge over Royal Imtech claim

Dutch firm De Brauw Blackstone Westbroek is hoping that the latest claim it faces from the trustees of a bankrupt engineering client will be its last, as a dispute between the pair continues to run after almost a decade. De Brauw’s annual report showed that a Rotterdam court had permitted an appeal to a decision […]

De Brauw’s investment costs hit €19.3m after office kit-out

Dutch firm De Brauw Blackstone Westbroek grew by 9 per cent in the 2023 financial year, recording a record revenue of €192.7m (£164m). The result sees it fall desperately short of double-digit growth from the previous year’s €176.8m (£150.5m). The firm saw a series of significant outlays to its cash position over the course of […]

Willkie’s beginning to look a lot like Latham

Latham’s loss of four partners in Germany provides a case study in how past relationships govern moves of the future. Willkie Farr and White & Case have poached a pair of partners each from Latham’s Hamburg and Frankfurt offices: restructuring and insolvency duo Jörn Kowalewski and Ulrich Klockenbrink are heading to Willkie Farr, while equity […]

Latham set for double blow as German teams exit for US rivals

Latham & Watkins is set to lose two teams in Germany, hitting the firm’s restructuring and equity capital markets capabilities in Hamburg and Frankfurt. The Lawyer understands that a two-partner restructuring team will leave to join Willkie, while a separate two-partner team is joining White & Case strengthening the latter’s equity capital markets practice. White & […]

No one should write off a challenger brand

Danish firm Accura posted its financials last week and in doing so two significant milestones were passed. Firstly, Accura posted a psychologically important 10-digit revenue figure in Danish Kroner for the first time to slightly above 1bn kr (£114.5m) (2022: 863.8m kr (£98.9m)). Secondly, for the first time in Danish legal history all five major […]

Eversheds set to close Berlin office

Eversheds Sutherland is set to close in Berlin after a thorough review of its German business. Berlin is a relatively small office for Eversheds, housing 14 lawyers and business services staff in total. Of those, two are partners in Carsten Brüninghaus (tax) and Christian Hilpert (restructuring, and banking and finance). Hilpert is not a full-time […]

Goodwin hits Euro 100 firm to bolster Luxembourg office

Goodwin Procter has given its Luxembourg office the early moving-in present of a new partner, hiring European 100 firm AKD’s co-head of investment funds. The US firm is bringing in Virginie Leroy to strengthen its European funds practice. Leroy spent more than four years at AKD, having joined from Canadian firm DSL in March 2020. […]

Great idea, terrible timing: the reasons behind Hannes Snellman’s Nordic retreat

Execution, as one lawyer says, is “easy to plan, but really ***ing hard to do”. That word ‘execution’ will be resting heavily on the minds of Hannes Snellman’s senior leadership. Earlier this year, the firm split in two; Helsinki and Stockholm are going their own ways. It effectively brings to an end one of the […]

Abreu edges close to €50m mark after 19 per cent growth

Portugal’s Abreu Advogados fell short of hitting the €50m revenue mark for the first time in its history after revenue surged by almost a fifth in last year. The firm’s top-line grew to €49.7m (£42.8m) from the previous year’s €41.7m. Managing partner Inês Sequeira Mendes praised the firm’s growth, but poured cold water on any […]

The Passport: De Brauw ushers in third generation of PE lawyers

Welcome to The Passport, your regular round-up of the most important stories to come from the European legal market. In this edition we take a look at the third generation of De Brauw’s private equity group and how domestic and regional firms in Ukraine may look to reshape after the war. De Brauw has entered […]

Simmons fights $150m Russian litigation for Barclays

Simmons & Simmons represented Barclays Bank in an $150m anti-suit and anti-enforcement injunction against Russian state investment bank, VEB. VEB was founded in 1922 as the first international bank of the USSR, and since 2018 it has been chaired by the country’s former deputy prime minister under Putin, Igor Shuvalov. The bank was represented by […]

New York alone isn’t worth it anymore

European firms see more value in having a physical office in the Square Mile than they do in the Big Apple. Last week, Spanish firm Uría Menéndez became the latest to shut up shop in New York, having been there for 30 years. Uría was the final member of Slaughter and May’s fabled Best Friends […]

Orrick replenishes Milan office with hires from Shearman’s Italian arm

Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe has drafted in the former M&A head of Shearman & Sterling’s Italian associate firm to rebuild its transactional capacity in the country. Fabio Fauceglia joins the firm from Studio Legale Associato Shearman & Sterling, bringing with him a team of six lawyers, comprising of counsel Leonardo Pinta and five associates. Fauceglia […]

Uría Menéndez to close New York office in strategic shift

Iberian firm Uría Menéndez will close in New York when its Park Avenue lease expires, after more than three decades in the US. The firm runs with a small staff in New York of just three lawyers, led by office managing partner and corporate lawyer José Félix Zaldivar. Uría Menéndez felt its US strategy would […]

Shearman’s Italy head joins White & Case on eve of A&O merger

The head of Shearman & Sterling’s association firm in Italy has left to join White & Case.

The Passport: Kinstellar’s on the integration path after Noerr’s office buys

Welcome to The Passport, your regular round-up of the most important stories to come from the European legal market. In this edition we have four stories for you as we increase the volume and scope of our European content. Focus this week turns to CEE stalwart Kinstellar; Stockholm’s newly-founded finance boutique Re:Fi; a hire for […]

Supreme Court tells Gazprom subsidiary to halt UniCredit claim

The Supreme Court has upheld an anti-suit injunction against a Gazprom subsidiary, potentially halting €440m proceedings in Russia. The Gazprom part-owned special purpose entity, RusChemAlliance (RCA), had brought a damages claim against the bank UniCredit in Russia concerning an aborted contract following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. UniCredit instructed Latham & Watkins in its pursuit of […]

How to develop your people in-house with Zurich GC Katja Roth Pellanda

Since Katja Roth Pellanda joined Zurich Insurance in 2020, a lot has changed. The GC has broken down the silos in the 700-person legal function, reducing the distance between the regions and the corporate centre. Zurich Insurance is a Swiss-based insurance company that has a presence in approximately 80 countries. With such a large business, […]

Euro 100 firm left reeling after rival’s six-partner raid

Norway’s Sands has suffered one of the largest mass defections in its history after six partners left to join Big Five firm Wiersholm in Trondheim. The hires bolster Wiersholm in a range of the firm’s key sectors, including marine law, renewables, technology, real estate and tax. The firm has committed to further growth over the […]

The Passport: Technological change is driving mergers across the Continent

Welcome to The Passport, your regular round-up of all the most important stories to come from the European legal market. In this edition, CMS Wistrand recently went live and its drivers were myriad, but one in particular stood out for us; Poland is dangerously underlawyered in one very particular area; and Pinsents has embarked on […]

“We’re not setting any limitations”: Competition boutique opens in Paris

Competition boutique Geradin Partners opens its doors in Paris today as the firm seeks to become a serious player in the French capital’s vibrant competition and litigation scenes. Opening on the same block as Freshfields in the heart of Paris’ 8e Arrondissement, Geradin has brought in competition litigator Marc Barennes from Bureau Brandeis with his […]

Fieldfisher boosts German offering with 11-strong hire

Fieldfisher is bolstering its German presence with a sizeable team from local firm SKW Schwartz and a handful of other hires, in an effort to expand its media, technology and IP offerings. The firm has hired eight lawyers from SKW Schwarz including partners Martin Diesbach, Elisabeth Noltenius and Julia Schafdecker, all of whom specialise in […]

Clifford Chance’s Warsaw office raided amid political row

Clifford Chance’s Warsaw office has been caught up in a political row that has ended with the office being searched by the authorities, The Lawyer understands. The search relates to Clifford Chance’s alleged role in supporting an individual prosecutor who took it upon herself to stop the old Polish government from changing the rules relating to the […]

Fieldfisher re-enters Italy with five-partner hire

Fieldfisher has launched an office in Milan with a five-partner hire just six months after cutting ties with its partner firm in the country. The firm gained regulatory approval to launch the new office on 4 April, which begins as a 26-lawyer, five-partner operation in northern Italy. All five partners – including country managing partner […]

The Energy Edit: Addleshaws head reveals plans to double revenue

Addleshaw Goddard’s energy practice has come a long way from doing the “weird renewables stuff” in the 90s, now aiming for £70m in revenue by the decade’s end.

KWM’s last European office joins Addleshaws for Spain debut

The fate of King & Wood Mallesons’ (KWM) final European office has been decided with the firm’s Madrid partners joining Addleshaw Goddard. KWM’s 13-partner Madrid office will join Addleshaws next month, launching the UK firm’s first office in Spain. The new office will be led by KWM Spain managing partner and corporate/M&A lawyer Roberto Pomares. […]

Paul Weiss pushes growth to Europe with Brussels launch

Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison’s rapid growth in London is now translating to the Continent, as the firm has hired a Simpson Thacher & Bartlett partner to launch an office in Brussels. Simpson Thacher partner Ross Ferguson will join the growing European partner base at Paul Weiss. Jason Glover, London office head at Simpson […]

The Passport: How Star Wars helped define one firm’s international network

Welcome to The Passport, your regular round-up of the most important stories to come from the European legal market. In this edition, we have a Kinstellar sandwich on Parisien bread. We look at how August Debouzy’s latest phase of international development is taking shape; a glimpse at arguably Europe’s most expansionist firm’s foray into Southeast […]

Ex-Bird & Bird partner faces tribunal over inappropriate behaviour claims

An ex-Bird & Bird partner will face the Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal for allegations of “inappropriate conduct” including “sexualised messages”. The allegations concern Takeshige Sugimoto, who was a partner based in Belgium at the time of the matter. While in a position of seniority over two individuals, Sugimoto is alleged to have made inappropriate comments and […]

Kinstellar bolsters CEE offering with four Noerr offices

Kinstellar has agreed a deal to acquire four offices of German firm Noerr, strengthening in all the sites that the firm began with following its split from Linklaters in 2008. Noerr’s practices will be transferred to Kinstellar in Bratislava, Budapest, Bucharest and Prague. The details of the integration will be made clearer in the coming […]

European 100 firm sets ambitious target for Paris growth

Paris-headquartered firm Jeantet is set to embark on a significant growth push, setting itself the target of hitting 200 lawyers in the French capital by 2026. Currently sitting at around the 160-lawyer mark, with 35 partners, this change will mark a nearly 25 per cent uplift in the coming two years. This would put the […]

Vinge CEO exits firm after 12 years in top job

Vinge’s Maria-Pia Hope has left the Swedish firm after stepping down as CEO after 12 years in the role. Hope’s final day at the firm was 31 March with her successor, banking and finance partner Louise Brorsson Salomon, stepping into her shoes on 1 April. Having joined the firm in 1996, Hope made partner seven […]

Scandi shake-up as Hannes Snellman finalises split between offices

Scandinavian firm Hannes Snellman has finalised the split between its Swedish and Finnish businesses, citing “a divergence of the business strategies…in Helsinki and Stockholm”. The firm announced in February 2024 that the split would take place and the necessary arrangements have taken place splitting the offices into two distinct entities under the Hannes Snellman operating […]

London eclipses Europe in latest Fieldfisher promos

Fieldfisher has promoted 10 lawyers to partner in its 2024 promotions round, eight of whom have been made up in London. The London promotions, effective from 1 April, comprise four women. This includes private client lawyer Alice Vink, banking and finance director Anna Crosby, clinical negligence director Helen Thompson and Shaheen Mosquera, who specialises in […]

FIFA seeks new recruits ahead of Miami office move

Four senior in-housers have quit football organisation FIFA over the last couple of months for new general counsel positions. The governance body is now recruiting for the four in-house legal positions, including a new head of commercial partnerships, a head of digital and technology, a senior counsel for esports and digital, and a senior counsel […]

Gianni becomes latest Italian firm to overhaul management structure

Gianni & Origoni partners have voted in favour of making wholesale changes to the firm’s management and remuneration structures as a wave of modernisation continues to wash across the Italian legal sector. The changes will see a new management committee established, as well as both expanding the number and diversifying the members of the firm’s […]

Noerr passes €300m barrier in Germany with record revenue

German firm Noerr has announced its financial results for 2023, marking a significant point in its history as having generated more €300m in its domestic market for the first time. Globally the firm generated €333.1m across all its offices. The results marked an increase of 5.7 per cent on 2022, when the firm achieved a […]

The Passport: Paris is a white-hot litigation market

Welcome to The Passport, your regular round-up of all the most important stories to come from the European legal market. In this edition, litigators have been moving en masse in Paris this year and we take a look into one of the bigger moves; Denmark’s Plesner passed the psychologically impactful DKK1bn mark for the first […]

Slaughters and Travers among firms advising on Vodafone’s €8bn Italian sale

Slaughter and May has represented long-time client Vodafone on the telecommunications giant’s latest sale of its Italian business to Swisscom. The Slaughters team was steered by corporate partners Victoria MacDuff and James Cook, along with associates Serena Hopkins, Anika Sethy and Iain Meiklejohn. The firm also fielded a sizeable team of tax, commercial and employment […]

A&O Shearman will be a European kingmaker

The Dutch legal market is uber conservative; it has witnessed little by way of disruption to force the kind of sweeping changes seen here in London. Amsterdam is not the city where firms can rack up mega fees; big-ticket M&A work is not done there as often as it is here. That said, if you’ve […]

The Passport: Dentons’ new-look Polish management team is trying something different

Welcome to The Passport, your regular round-up of all the most important stories to come from the European legal market. In this week’s edition, we take a look at how tumult at the top of Dentons’ Polish arm has led to the firm opting for co-managing partners for the first time in its history; why […]

The Energy Edit: Behind HSF’s bumper interconnector project

The energy crisis poses an opportunity for law firms to become experts in new areas of project finance – an opportunity HSF has grasped with both hands.

Hiring surge ahead as Euro firms double down in London

A raft of Europe’s elite law firms are set to increase their lawyer headcount and office space in London as they sense greater opportunity in the capital than ever before. Research undertaken by The Lawyer for an upcoming report on the International Signal channel found that around one-third (11) of European 100 law firms with […]

“Bitter disillusionment”: CMS under fire from associates over salary freezes

CMS’s German arm is facing heavy criticism from a cross-section of its associates after new pay structures were announced, freezing salaries at the firm for all but first and second year associates. The associates’ complaints, published in German title Juve, outline deep discontent among the firm’s junior ranks after salary increases were announced for its […]

Garrigues becomes first European 100 firm to pass €450m milestone

Garrigues has become the first EU-headquartered firm to pass the €450m milestone after growing its topline by 2.5 per cent in 2023. The firm announced its revenue last year hit a record high of €454.3m, representing a modest increase on the €443.2m it posted in 2022. Most of Garrigues’ revenue was made in its native […]

The Passport: Hogan Lovells is going all in on Italy

Welcome to The Passport, your regular round-up of all the most important stories to come from the European legal market. In this week’s edition, Hogan Lovells has gone big on Italy and we’re interested in what they’ll do next; Ireland’s white-hot lateral market now seems to be cooling after years of intense musical chairs; and […]

City lawyers: prepare to be love-bombed

Last week’s The Lawyer Podcast was a good’un, eh? Lofty metaphors about the flapping wings of a butterfly, searing insights contrasting London with New York, and explosive statistics about how seriously the European firms are taking London. Give it a listen, and you’ll hear how European law firms are sensing a moment to pounce on opportunity […]

Orrick suffers second Italian hit with 15-lawyer loss to BonelliErede

Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe has been hit by a second mass defection in Italy this week, seeing a 15-lawyer team leave to join BonelliErede just days after another group moved to Hogan Lovells. The BonelliErede joiners will strengthen the firm’s risk, compliance and investigations (RCI) group, as well as its IP, privacy and IT team […]

The Passport: The days of the billable hour bonus are coming to an end

Welcome to The Passport, your regular round-up of all the most important stories to come from the European legal market. In this week’s edition, it looks as though the days of just having your bonuses linked to billable hours are almost over in Europe as firms increasingly seem to be moving away from that sole […]

BonelliErede overhauls partner remuneration in strategic shake-up

BonelliErede has enacted a trio of radical overhauls affecting partner remuneration, associate progression into the partnership and how partners should approach their retirements in one of the most significant policy shifts in its history. The new measures decided by BonelliErede’s new-look management committee represent an early marker of how they will look to reform the […]

The Passport: London is more important to the Europeans than New York

Welcome to The Passport, your regular round-up of all the most important stories to come from the European legal market. In this week’s edition, we tell you why New York is out and London is in, at least to the European elite; what the future holds for Ireland’s IP scene; and why Poland’s legal market […]

WFW and HFW score new recruits from Ince’s Piraeus office

Teams from Ince & Co’s Piraeus office are joining the Greek operations of Watson Farley & Williams (WFW) and Holman Fenwick Willan (HFW). The moves follow the collapse of Ince last year, after it was bought out of administration by Axiom DWFM, which subsequently became Axiom Ince. WFW is hiring partners Jamila Khan, Aris Moschopoulos […]

Ashurst picks Poland for third delivery centre launch

Ashurst is to launch a global delivery centre in Krakow, following on from NewLaw offerings in Glasgow and Brisbane. The firm is opening in the Polish city’s business district with a staff headcount of 15. Ahead of the launch, Ashurst partnered with Elevate to help design the premises and sort operational logistics. Talking to The Lawyer […]

Freshfields former tax chief jailed for fraud

Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer’s former global head of tax was sentenced to three and a half years in prison by a Frankfurt court on Tuesday. Ulf Johannemann, who had been a partner in the magic circle firm’s Frankfurt office, was found to have assisted the German arm of the Canadian Maple Bank in fraudulent trading over […]

The Passport: The Big Four are going to catch you on AI

Welcome to The Passport, your regular round-up of all the most important stories to come from the European legal market. In this week’s edition, we tell you why you should be so terrified of the Big Four’s deep pockets; how Loyens & Loeff revitalised its London office and now stands stronger than ever; and what […]

CMS eyes Danish merger to complete Scandinavian expansion

CMS is keen to maintain its momentum in Scandinavia by expanding into Denmark after its mergers with firms in Norway and Sweden over the last two years, The Lawyer understands. Sources in the Danish market say that partners from CMS have been making themselves clear that Denmark is now firmly on the agenda and that […]

Pérez-Llorca adds two roles to management team

Spanish Euro 100 firm Pérez-Llorca has handed new managerial roles to two partners, giving each a remit over the firm’s domestic and international growth respectively. The new responsibilities have been given to Madrid-based corporate/M&A partners Julio Lujambio and Iván Delgado who have been named executive partner and international executive partner, respectively. Pérez-Llorca said that Lujambio […]

Ex-KWM Italy head becomes latest to take up Eversheds offer

Eversheds Sutherland continues to pick up former King & Wood Mallesons partners across Europe with the latest hire coming in Milan. Corporate/M&A partner and former KWM Italy managing partner Davide Proverbio will make the move to Eversheds. He brings with him a senior associate and trainee. Proverbio will co-lead the Italian coporate/M&A practice with Eversheds […]

The Passport: How a secondment at Slaughters created a new path at Uría

Welcome to The Passport, your regular round-up of all the most important stories to come from the European legal market. In this week’s edition, we look at how the fabled best friends network helped Iberian firm Uría Menéndez retain one of its brightest talents and create a whole new career pathway within the firm. We […]

Arendt opens first German office in expansion drive

Funds-focused Euro 100 firm Arendt & Medernach has opened its first German office with the firm seeking to make in-roads into Frankfurt’s myriad financial institutions as well as the European Central Bank. The firm announced it would be opening in the German financial centre, though its new office will not offer German law capabilities. Instead […]

Hill Dickinson snaps up Ince team for office launch

Hill Dickinson has launched an office in Limassol in Cyprus with a shipping team from Ince. The firm has formed an association with shipping partners George Zambartas and Ester Toumpouris to establish a new base on the island that will be known as Hill Dickinson in association with G Zambartas LLC. G Zambartas LLC formerly […]

“A pure lockstep profit share”: Mannheimer Swartling revamps associate incentive scheme

Swedish firm Mannheimer Swartling has revamped its remuneration system for associates in a bid to bring it in line with the firm’s pure lockstep model for partners. Mannheimer brought in a bonus scheme for associates around a decade ago with junior lawyers assessed on registered hours worked. The result was a flat bonus awarded to […]

Eversheds adds more KWM recruits with four-partner hire

Eversheds Sutherland has brought on more partners from King & Wood Mallesons’ European network as part of the sprawling cooperation agreement between the two firms. The UK-headquartered firm announced that an 11-strong team, including four partners in the Germany financial hub of Frankfurt, will join Eversheds’ office in the city. Eversheds Germany managing partner Alexander […]

The Passport: Where to find the best Fish and Chips in Norway

Happy new year and all that, Passport readers. We’re back after a restful break and ready to bring you all the most important stories from around the European legal market. Kicking things off in 2024 we’ve got stories of a rejig in the management at Danish firm Plesner; a look back at the reign of […]

HSF overhauls secondment scheme for European associates

Junior lawyers in Herbert Smith Freehills’ (HSF) European offices can now work in any other office on the Continent for up to three weeks as part of a new secondment scheme introduced last year. The European Short Visits Programme (ESVP) applies to all European associates and counsel, excluding the UK, with the requirements for qualifying […]

Wikborg Rein follows up Ince hires with office launch

Norwegian firm Wikborg Rein has taken another growth step in 2023, as it looks set to open its third domestic office. The Norwegian Big Five firm is expected to launch in the energy hub of Stavanger after hiring corporate partner Per Kristian Ramsland from Norwegian rival Arntzen de Besche. Ramsland joined the firm in early […]

Morgan Lewis builds on Munich growth with two-partner hire

Morgan Lewis’s 2023 German expansion push has culminated in a two-partner hire in Frankfurt from Bird & Bird, following on from the launch of its Munich office earlier this year. Partners Hans Leube and Marianne Nawroth have made the move over to the US firm, strengthening Morgan Lewis’s private equity offering in the key financial […]

The Passport: It’s never easy in management

This is the final edition of The Passport this year; we’ll be back again in the New Year with loads more stories from across Europe to ensure you’re kept abreast of the profession’s most important legal developments. But first, we’ve got three stories for your to sink your teeth into. Arthur Cox’s managing partner Geoff […]

Schoenherr doubles Polish presence with 23-lawyer raid

CEE firm Schoenherr will double the size of its Warsaw office after hiring a team of 23 lawyers from a domestic Polish firm. This marks the second sizeable team hire by an Austrian headquartered law firm in 2023. The hire includes seven partners, all hailing from Polish national firm SSW Pragmatic Solutions. They are capital […]

Kirkland set for associate hiring spree in Paris

Kirkland & Ellis is set to take the next step in the growth of its Paris office by building out an associate base following the hire of key partners. Since opening in 2018, the Paris office has grown rapidly with partner hires from the likes of Willkie Farr & Gallagher, Linklaters and local firm De […]

The Lawyer European Awards 2023: The Winners

It was the turn of Nordic law firm Roschier to claim the crown as the Continent’s outstanding law firm last night at The Lawyer’s annual European Awards ceremony. The firm won the prize at London’s Grosvenor House hotel on Park Lane, as the elite of European legal talent came together in celebration. The Helsinki-headquartered law […]

The Lawyer’s European Awards: Who’s in the running for GC of the year?

Ahead of this Thursday’s 2023 The Lawyer European Awards, we have spoken to, learned from and highlighted some outstanding legal talent from across the Continent. Amid geopolitical uncertainty, an inflationary macroeconomic environment and increasingly strict regulations, there’s never been a more fascinating time to be an in-house lawyer. We sat down with the six shortlisted […]

The Passport: The Euro 100 preview edition

Welcome to The Passport, your weekly roundup making sense of the European legal market. This week is The Lawyer’s annual European Awards, a night where we celebrate the breadth of talent and dedication from Portugal to Poland, Sweden to Sicily, and everywhere lying between. Not only that, the 2023 edition of the Euro 100 report […]

Spotlight: Freshfields’ answer to Germany’s mass claims problem

This week on The Lawyer’s Litigation Tracker, we explore Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer’s Mass Claims Unit (MCU). Offering a novel take on how to handle this ever-growing part of the European disputes market, the magic circle firm wants to be a one-stop shop for the largest mass claims and tap into previously unexplored talent pools. The […]

Willkie Farr to launch Munich office

Willkie Farr & Gallagher is to open a second office in Germany, as the firm aims to become a major player in Europe, The Lawyer can reveal. The new outpost in Munich is expected to focus on funds work. It will be the firm’s 14th office globally and its seventh office in Europe. Willkie already […]

CMS strikes merger deal with Swedish firm

CMS is set to add two Swedish offices to its network after joining forces with a local firm. The merger with Stockholm-headquartered Wistrand will give the firm offices in both Sweden’s capital and its second city of Gothenburg. The announcement comes nearly two years after CMS announced its tie-up with Norwegian firm Kluge. Wistrand was […]

Paul Hastings seals Abry Partners’ buy-out of Chambers & Partners

Paul Hastings has scored a mandate acting for PE sponsor Abry on its buy-out of legal intelligence provider Chambers & Partners from Inflexion. The Lawyer has learnt that Abry Partners was spearheaded by London private equity head Anu Balasubramanian, with help from partners Jamie Holdoway and Arun Birla on tax, as well as Michael Wise […]

The Passport: Fieldfisher was right to re-evaluate Italy

Welcome to The Passport, your roundup of all the most important stories coming out of Europe this week. We’re taking a close look at why Fieldfisher’s decision to call time on its Italian merger was the right one; why it isn’t just Danish firms that need to re-evaluate their partnership structures; and how Squires is […]

Fieldfisher set to breakaway from Italian arm

Fieldfisher will part ways with its Italian partners and offices in March 2024, The Lawyer can reveal, but is eyeing a quick re-entry into the country. The UK-headquartered firm will officially break away from Studio Associato Servizi Professionali Integrati (SASPI), with which it merged in 2016, on 8 March 2024 with Fieldfisher saying it will […]

Competition boutique sets up in Amsterdam

A competition-focused boutique launched by a former Covington & Burling partner will establish a third office in the new year, adding Amsterdam to its existing sites in Brussels and London. Geradin Partners, the firm launched by Damien Geradin who spent five years as a partner at Covington between 2010 and 2015, has hit Dutch firm […]

Schjødt raids local Danish firm to bolster corporate offering

Expansionist Norwegian-headquartered firm Schjødt has made its most aggressive and targeted move in Copenhagen since launching, raiding a local firm for four partners to significantly grow its operation in the Danish capital. Schjødt has hired Moalem Weitemeyer partners Frantz Sigersted-Rasmussen, Tobias Bonde Frost, Mattias Vilhelm Warnøe Nielsen and Rasmus Juel Schiøtt. A further five associates […]

Euro 100 firm dumps ‘up or out’ partner track model in diversity push

Danish big five firm Plesner has overhauled its partner track, dumping its long-standing two-year ‘up or out’ model and lengthening the path to equity as part of a bid to diversify its partnership. The firm’s previous model saw aspiring partners apply for the equity and be given a two-year window to make the grade. However, […]

The Passport: Looking for a friend in Benelux? Look no further

We’ve got a slimmed down version of The Passport for this week. We know your excitement for next week’s International Bar Association conference in Paris will be growing by the minute, so we thought we’d make this read a calm one for you. We’re looking to the future of Benelux firm Vandenbulke as its founding […]

Ahead of schedule: Euro 100 firm to smash gender target early

Irish Big Five firm Arthur Cox is the latest firm to announce that it is ahead of schedule to meet its partnership gender target, as the industry tries to address gender inequality. The firm is hopeful that its target of at least 30 per cent of the equity being female will be reached in either […]

The Passport: Meet Europe’s hottest class actions market

When was the last time you visited Portugal? If the answer to that question was, ‘within the last three years’, then you passed through one of the world’s most exciting and rapidly developing class actions markets. Lawyers on the ground in Lisbon are facing a tsunami of consumer claims and that’s great news for the […]

Pinsents hits Dentons for three partners in European growth push

A three-partner team has left Dentons in Germany to join Pinsent Masons amid the latter firm’s ongoing push to grow its German arm. Pinsents will swell its ranks in Düsseldorf with the additions of Dentons partners Andreas Haak, Lars Hettich and Michael Krömker, boosting its capabilities in public/EU law and corporate/M&A work. Haak’s departure will […]

BonelliErede names first-ever female MP in management shake-up

Italian outfit BonelliErede has announced changes to two key management roles, including the naming of the first woman to hold the managing partner role in the firm’s 24-year history. Milan-based corporate/M&A partner Eliana Catalano will become managing partner, taking over from incumbent Andrea Carta Mantiglia. Long-serving London managing partner Massimiliano Danusso will become the firm’s […]

The Passport: Former Schjødt managing partner facing serious allegations

Welcome to this week’s edition of The Passport, your weekly guide to everything happening in the European legal market. This week, our main story concerns allegations against the former managing partner and driving force of Norwegian-headquartered Schjødt. The allegations could have grave ramifications for a man widely credited with having transformed his firm’s fortunes and […]

A PwC breakaway has become the most talked-about firm in Denmark

It’s hired – paid big money, sparked a revolution in remuneration, hired teams straight out of its rivals – including one rival’s chairman – has the plum renewables clients that its competitors would kill for; and now it’s going international. Meet the firm that rewrote the rule book in Denmark. Danish law firm Accura marked […]

Bird & Bird hits Big Four firm for legal tech head

Tech-focused Bird & Bird has bolstered its client offering by creating a new role at the firm and hiring a legal tech expert from one of the Big Four to fill it. Hélder Santos joins his new firm from KPMG where he spent 18 months as the firm’s head of legal tech Solutions, having previously […]

The Passport: Taylor Wessing, Inflexion and Beyoncé

This week in The Passport we’re taking a view on how Taylor Wessing might add an important missing piece in its European jigsaw and how a weak Krona has been both a blessing and a curse to Sweden’s biggest players. Taylor Wessing’s big Italian gap The big European news out of Taylor Wessing earlier this […]

The Lawyer European Awards 2023: Shortlist revealed

The Lawyer’s European Awards is back for the 14th year in a row to crown the crème de la crème of the European legal market. More than 250 entries from 120 firms and organisations have been submitted as the battle begins to claim one or more of the 27 prizes that are up for grabs. […]

The Passport: Continental Europe’s largest firm is…

The Passport is back after the summer break, this week featuring Spain’s Pérez-Llorca as it announces its arrival in Portugal. We also explore why Latham & Watkins won’t be announcing an office in the Dutch capital in the near future, along with a little teaser ahead of the release of The Lawyer’s Global Top 30 […]

Pinsents to double EMEA corporate revenue by 2030

Pinsent Masons is ramping up investment in its EMEA corporate group as it aims to double corporate revenue by 2030. Though coy on a fixed figure, The Lawyer understands that internal targets would place the figure north of €100m in seven years’ time. To achieve this, Pinsents aims to significantly grow its corporate lawyer numbers […]

Freshfields is still a staunch Europhile

A little milestone was passed by Freshfields in June. It’s been 23 years since The Lawyer revealed its merger with the elite German outfit Bruckhaus Westrick Heller Löber, following just a couple of years on from the Deringer deal. The turn of the century was a watershed moment not only for Freshfields’ European expansion, but also for […]

Norton Rose’s EMEA boss vows never to return to five-day office week

Norton Rose Fulbright’s (NRF) EMEA network has committed to making hybrid working a core part of its future as the firm’s regional managing partner rules out ever returning to a mandated five-day office week. The post-Covid years have seen firms wrestle with returning to the office policies in a bid to find the right balance […]

Squires hits two firms for Amsterdam opening

Squire Patton Boggs has stated its intentions to be a serious player in European private equity as the firm makes a trio of partner hires in two key Continental markets. The most significant result of this is the launch of a new office in Amsterdam. The firm has hired corporate partner Jeroen Sombezki from Dutch […]

Brexit qualifications are over

The rush of UK firms sending their lawyers to qualify at the Irish Bar is well and truly over. In the immediate aftermath of Brexit, Dublin was a safe haven for qualification for lawyers wanting to shore up their European Union (EU) connections. The rationale was simple: it is an English-speaking jurisdiction, its lenient approach […]

International firms want a larger slice of Dublin

A handful of international players are resetting their growth expectations in Dublin, as investment continues to flow in the region. Taylor Wessing, Bird & Bird and Pinsent Masons have all revealed to The Lawyer that they are setting ambitious growth plans after hitting previously set targets. Bird & Bird had already set a target of […]

Benelux firm plumps for Paris for slice of global funds market

Luxembourg-headquartered funds firm Elvinger Hoss Prussen has expanded its European presence for the first time with a new office opening. The firm has launched an outfit in Paris as it seeks opportunities amid the French capital’s growing importance to the global funds market. The new Paris office opened its doors in late July, with a […]

The Passport: Italian consolidation is felt across all levels of the market

And here we are, the end of July. As we stand on the brink of Le Grand Départ, The Passport will follow the Continental tradition of a month-long break in August. We close the summer’s final edition with a taste of Italian consolidation, while considering what Wolf Theiss’s team addition in Poland means for its […]

Farrers has a European twin

Here in London, we’re in the height of the annual reporting season. We’re seeing a handful of trends emerging, but the most prominent seems to be revenues up, profits down. Revenue growth, it seems, is the one constant. The same was largely true of many of Continental Europe’s largest firms and constituents of our annual […]

The Passport: Inside Travers’ Luxembourg play

Welcome once again to The Passport, your guide to all of the European legal market’s most important developments. This week we turn our attentions to Travers Smith as it launches its first-ever country-specific desk; the key issue facing Pinsent Masons’ Dublin operation; and why infrastructure hires are big business across the Continent. Travers Smith’s Luxembourg […]

We know what Addleshaws is thinking

Addleshaw Goddard, The Lawyer clocked last year, has been growing its international revenue rapidly. A growth rate of 176 per cent for the five-year period between 2017/18 and 2021/22 means that Addleshaws’ revenue derived from outside of the UK has risen at a faster pace than any other firm in last year’s City 50 report. […]

Gibson Dunn swipes nine-strong team from Linklaters

Gibson Dunn & Crutcher has added nine lawyers to its ranks in Paris after hiring an energy and infrastructure team from Linklaters. Led by project and structured financing specialist partner Darko Adamovic, the France-based team is understood to operate both domestically and internationally. The hires also include of counsels Vincent Poilleux and Alex Bluett, alongside […]

Dentons has suddenly got cutthroat

Dentons is enjoying a growth spurt in Dublin

Wolf Theiss to open new office after 27-lawyer raid

One of the largest team moves in the history of Poland’s legal sector has seen Wolf Theiss significantly boost its corporate/M&A capabilities while expanding its regional office count. The firm has hired a transactional team from four-office Polish mid-market firm Wardyński & Partners to bolster its Polish transactional offering. In total, 27 lawyers have made […]

Raft of firms circling former Ince’s Greek offices

A slew of firms are mulling whether to snap up former beleaguered law firm Ince’s offices in Piraeus and Limassol, The Lawyer has learnt. The Lawyer understands potential suitors for the former firm’s Piraeus office include Clyde & Co and CMS. It is understood both firms are reviewing its client list, while Stephenson Harwood is […]

The Passport: Paul Hastings wants to build in Paris

Welcome back to The Passport, your guide to the European legal market. We return this week with three more stories exclusive to The Lawyer: a glimpse behind the curtain at Paul Hastings as the US firm seeks to add infrastructure expertise in a tricky Paris market, Kinstellar bolsters its Serbian offering with a local merger, […]

We know what Osborne Clarke will do next

Dublin is only a 35-minute drive from San Francisco – just head east on I-580 and you’re there in no time. Dublin in California may be near the epicentre of the tech world, but Dublin in Ireland is symbolically, at least, getting ever closer. The world-shrinkage is being led by a handful of European law […]

My Pride Story: I thought Pride was getting a bit much – then tragedy struck

On 25 June last year, the unthinkable happened. Tragedy struck in what should have been a weekend of celebration. Two people were shot and killed at the heart of the Oslo Pride celebrations. Some of my colleagues were moving in London pub circles, some of them know people who were directly affected, and some of […]

The Passport: Kirkland is taking Nordic PE global

Welcome back to The Passport. This week, we bring you a Nordic double-bill, which looks at how Kirkland’s success in breaking the Nordic funds market creates a complex situation for one of Copenhagen’s leading law firms and also why Borenius poaching a White & Case M&A partner speaks to the firm’s wider international strategy. But […]

The Passport: Sweden’s unicorn boom should make you think twice about Mannheimer

Welcome back to The Passport: your weekly newsletter full of European law firm analysis. This week, we have a tale of how Bristows has been forced to look on the Continent for access to the Unified Patent Court (UPC), sandwiched between two stories from Sweden. The first lets us pause on what the formalisation of […]

Fieldfisher’s schnitzel strategy

The hub model of using a particular city is a tried, tested and proven method of a firm being present in one place while retaining the ability to plug into work from the wider region. Singapore has long played that role for South East Asia, then there’s Miami for Latin America, and for Central and […]

The Passport: We have to talk about Vienna

Welcome back to The Passport, your weekly roundup of the most impactful stories from across the European continent. This week, Vienna’s importance to the European legal community appears to be increasing, Milan was named as the home of the third court of the UPC’s central division and a Brussels-based trade and sanctions boutique makes a […]

CMS lays ground for Swedish entry with cooperating agreement

CMS has agreed an exclusive cooperation agreement with a two-office Swedish firm as it continues to gain a foothold in the Nordics’ most important market. A spokesperson for CMS told The Lawyer that an agreement had been reach with Swedish firm Wistrand “under which both firms refer business to each other”. The deal gives CMS […]

Freshfields boosts Paris restructuring arm with US firm hire

Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer has bolstered its restructuring and insolvency offering in Paris with the hire of a partner from a US firm. Paul Hastings partner Guilhem Bremond will join the firm’s transactions practice, of which the restructuring team is a part, with almost three decades of experience on the debtor side of insolvency matters. Freshfields […]

Fieldfisher pushes European agenda forward with latest office launch

Fieldfisher is gaining a foothold in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE), opening its first office since placing the Continent at the core of its three-year strategy. To do this, Fieldfisher has opened its doors in the Austrian capital of Vienna with a four-partner team leading the new office. The firm has hit Austrian firm SCWP […]

The Passport: Chiomenti revamps partnership after McKinsey review

In this week’s edition: Chiomenti redefines its partnership through the ‘Three Speed Concept’, Setterwalls introduces what it believes is the Nordics first-ever India Desk, and why Danish firm Lundgrens stripped back its offering and refocused around four areas. Chiomenti’s partnership speed change In the very first edition of The Passport, we wrote about how Italian […]

Bristows to open in Dublin

Bristows is set to open a hub in Dublin this summer to assist its quest to be the first firm through the doors of the new Unified Patent Court (UPC), opening 1 June 2023. The UPC will be a new patent court common to 17 European Union (EU) member states with exclusive jurisdiction over European […]

The Germans might do it better

Listed law firms are at risk of becoming a busted flush in the UK. There’s little evidence to suggest that the partnership/shareholder model is a natural driver of growth and innovation; the experience of The Ince Group provides evidence of just how badly things can go wrong. And yet, sometimes UK policy experimentation can trigger […]

The Passport: Noerr reconfigures its associate secondment programme

In this week’s edition: why Noerr has reconfigured its associate secondment programme to focus more on its home market; and why Gorrissen Federspiel thinks bolstering its real estate ranks in a bear market will yield future returns. Energy arbitration is shifting north Swedish lawyers might be picking up work following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in […]

Hengeler Mueller introduces salary partner tier

German firm Hengeler Mueller is no longer an all-equity law firm, having voted to bring in a salary partner tier in one of the most significant changes in its history. The news – originally reported in German publication Juve – represents a sweeping change to Hengeler Mueller. The firm had introduced a counsel tier several […]

Alight GC: Why I swapped the partnership track to embrace the unknown

Energy is at the forefront of our shared consciousness. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine raised grave concerns about Europe’s use of natural gas, and emissions from transport and factories the world over are not alleviating the climate crisis we find ourselves in. The importance of green energy is growing with each passing day – and Alight […]

The most politically-connected law firm in Europe is also the most secretive

Thanks to the widespread adoption of the LLP, the vast majority of UK law firms publish their accounts. Yet it wasn’t always like this. In the early 2000s our fearless forebears at The Lawyer would have to ferret out information and put researched estimates to firms in order to create a benchmarking project that eventually morphed […]

The Passport: This is Europe’s hottest new destination for arbitration

As we up the regularity of our European offering to weekly, we focus on Hengeler Mueller as it leads the charge for financial investors to put their money into professional services firms (we’re sceptical); and arbitration has a new hotspot as Madrid’s CIAM courts global law firms. Tread carefully, Germany. The grass isn’t always greener […]

The Passport: Addleshaws’ new Swedish friend and Dechert’s Parisian dawn

Here we are, together again – reunited by our love of the European legal market with all its comings and goings. This week’s instalment of The Passport features vignettes from Addleshaw Goddard and how its hire of a former LOGOS partner is paying dividends in Sweden, what Accura’s new home in Copenhagen’s harbour means for […]

Norway is your best route to partnership

Perhaps, on one of your more wanderlusty days, you’ve considered a move away from the City. Sometimes being packed in on a Northern line commute can cause these thoughts to drift in and, unexpectedly, you’re now thinking about what life would be like if you were a partner at one of Norway’s most prestigious firms. […]

Three Crowns set for Madrid launch

Arbitration boutique Three Crowns is set to open its fifth global office, with the firm poised to add Madrid to its network, The Lawyer understands. The move comes amid a wider push to make the Spanish capital a major centre for international arbitration. Sources have said that Three Crowns partner Carmen Martinez Lopez will relocate […]

Iberia’s answer to Macfarlanes is posing a question

Pérez-Llorca’s gains in recent years mean we should now be asking whether the Big Three in Spain is actually a Big Four

How Ally McBeal drove one Swedish lawyer to the fintech frontier

It would be fascinating to see exactly how many young lawyers were influenced by Calista Flockhart’s 90s portrayal of Boston lawyer Ally McBeal. The show was a critical and commercial success, winning multiple Emmys and Golden Globes over the course of its five-season run. One lawyer who can vouch for Flockhart’s influence, and also to […]

To GC or not GC, that is Europe’s question

Here in the UK, among the very top of the legal market, law firm general counsel (GC) are commonplace. Indeed, 27 of the 30 highest-ranking firms in The Lawyer UK200 have their own GC. CMS likes the role so much that it has Craig Perry and Stephen Hermer work as joint-GCs, which might be seen as a little […]

The Passport: Norway is your best bet to make partner

This week The Lawyer take a closer examination of Hjort’s corporate development, Pérez-Llorca’s professionalisation, and Loyens & Loeff’s ace-in-the-hole to retain its best and brightest. The Passport will take a break in April with the next edition coming on 2 May. Want to make partner? Move to Norway Did you see The Lawyer’s inaugural Nordic […]

Weil Gotshal’s old office got a good merger deal but can’t ignore the cultural headaches

When The Lawyer last wrote at length about Weil Gotshal & Manges’ former Poland team, we started with an anecdote. We will do so again. Pawel Rymarz and Marcin Maruta arrived to a dinner hosted by a mutual friend expecting to enjoy a relaxing evening. The managing partners of ruthless corporate/M&A firm Rymarz Zdort and […]

The Passport: The battle for Caverion intensifies and Frankfurt beckons

Welcome to The Passport: your regular guide to all the most important and meaningful developments in the European legal market. This week, we’ve a Finnish double-header as we look at how Roschier is taking inspiration from its founder to empower a new generation of leaders in law, the deal turning heads in Helsinki, Cuatrecasas’ trans-Atlantic […]

Shearman exits: Firm loses two more in Paris and Dubai

Shearman & Sterling has lost two partners from its international network as the fallout continues from the breakdown in merger talks with Hogan Lovells. The firm has lost Paris-based corporate partner Guillaume Isautier to magic circle firm Allen & Overy, while King & Spalding announced that Shearman projects partner Brendan Hundt would be joining its […]

Dublin prepares for talent war as international firms ramp up training

A host of international firms in Dublin are set to launch, or expand, the number of training contracts available in a move that could spark a land grab for Ireland’s most promising legal talent. Dublin has become a hotbed of international firms, with many having launched offices in a post-Brexit hedge play to ensure continued […]

The Passport: Bird & Bird turns 10 in Denmark, while Pinsents loses another in Dublin

Welcome to The Passport: your regular guide to all the most important and meaningful developments in the European legal market. This week, we’re looking into how Lindahl is managing its revival in Stockholm, the success of Gleiss Lutz’s pitch to Daimler, and the motivations behind Bird & Bird and William Fry strengthening in the firms’ […]

Taylor Wessing signs up to Spanish alliance

Taylor Wessing’s talks with Iberian-American firm ECIJA have ended with the two firms agreeing to form a strategic alliance. News broke that the pair were in discussions in late January as the two tech and TMT-focused firms discussed how best they could develop a working relationship. Taylor Wessing said the move was a “response to […]

Shearman woes mount as Morgan Lewis takes entire Munich team

Morgan Lewis & Bockius is set to take on the entirety of Shearman & Sterling’s office in Munich. According to German legal publication Juve, the team consists of three partners, 20 associates and 13 business services professionals. The team is understood to be moving to Morgan Lewis in April this year. Shearman continues to have […]

Norwegian Big Five firm names new managing partner

Norway’s Schjødt has announced a change of managing partner with the Oslo-based Magnus Lütken taking over from long-term incumbent Erling Ueland. Ueland is credited around the Norwegian market with having transformed Schjødt’s fortunes from a respectable, regional shipping firm into an undisputed member of the country’s elite five law firms, alongside the likes of Wikborg […]

The Hearing: The CAT is pushing back; and call HSF if you want justice for your stranded jets

Welcome to this week’s edition of The Hearing, your insider’s guide to the UK litigation market. Following last week’s first anniversary of Russia invading Ukraine, we consider how the landscape has changed for Russian litigation in London. First though, a judgment from the Competition Appeal Tribunal (CAT) last week has provided a rare example of […]

From H&M to tech start-up: Instabee GC reflects on a decade in-house

One of the main joys of going in-house is that you get the chance to experience virtually every challenge that a legal career can throw at you. From a very early stage, Instabee general counsel Mikaela Bielke knew that she wanted her career to be defined by variety and that her work would aide every […]

Supporting Ukrainian refugees: a story of hope in dark times

Employing and housing Ukrainian refugees is not just ethically correct, it has proved good for business and friendship.

The Passport: Your regular guide to the European legal market

Welcome to The Passport: your regular guide to all the most important and meaningful developments in the European legal market. The Lawyer will be looking at the strategies, client relationships and the players across Continental Europe, making this a one-stop editorial shop for regional developments. This inaugural edition kicks off with a look into Vinge’s burgeoning […]

DACB raids Italian firm to open offices in Italy

DAC Beachcroft has expanded into Italy by opening two new offices in Milan and Rome. The venture is fully operative as of today (1 February 2023) and the firm has swiped an insurance team from Milan-headquartered Advant NCTM to kick things off. Partners Anthony Perotto, Guido Foglia and Michele Zucca have taken the leap and […]

Taylor Wessing in talks with Iberian firm over strategic alliance

Taylor Wessing is looking to develop a strategic alliance with Iberian firm ECIJA in a move that would greatly expand the former’s geographic offering to its tech and venture capital clients. The two parties were understood to have entered talks in late 2022. It is expected that a final decision will be reached by the […]

Ropes makes first hire for fledgling Dublin office

Law firms are continuing to expand with offices in the Republic of Ireland, as Ropes & Gray hires from the country’s competition regulator to launch its operations. The firm has recruited Dervla Broderick as a counsel. She was previously a deputy director at the Competition and Consumer Protection Commission, having also spent time in the […]

Nordic Capital GC Henrik Johansson on tough decisions and turning off the noise

There will have been plenty reasons to raise a smile on the face of Nordic Capital general counsel Henrik Johansson in 2022. The biggest highlight the outside world will have seen was the private equity house closing its largest-ever fund at €9bn in an extremely challenging macroeconomic environment. It even clocked in at €1bn over […]

Four Spaniards and a Portuguese walk into Uria’s London office

For associates at the Iberian giant, a stint in London will only help their careers

The Lawyer European Awards 2022: The Winners

Iberian firm Cuatrecasas took home the top prize last night at The Lawyer’s European Awards, in a ceremony held at the Hilton Bankside Hotel, which celebrated the very best of the European legal market. The evening reserved special thought for Ukraine after Russia’s invasion of the country earlier this year. Special praise was reserved for […]

And the winner is…

Recent winners of The Lawyer’s top European prize have profited from exceptional circumstances, but the future looks a very different kind of exceptional

Weil’s former Polish arm merges to create £30m firm

As the global economic situation creates fertile ground for legal market consolidation, the former Polish arm of Weil Gotshal & Manges has announced a merger with a fellow Polish market leader to create an entity worth roughly £30m. Rymarz Zdort, which was created in 2019 after breaking away from the US firm, and Maruta Wachta […]

Nordic Capital reaps rewards of legal function overhaul

Private equity house Nordic Capital closed its largest-ever fund last month, with the firm’s recent expansion leading to a doubling in headcount of its legal team and support from the likes of Kirkland & Ellis and White & Case. The fund hit its high cap of €9bn and exceeded internal expectations about what could be […]

GSK Stockmann’s London launch is all about Germany

The German independent wants to challenge its domestic rivals through international differentiation.

Pinsent Masons names new head of Germany

Pinsent Masons has appointed a new head of Germany to replace Rainer Kreifels, who has been in the role since 2015. Partner Thomas Peschke took over the head role from 1 October 2022, overseeing the firm’s three German offices in Düsseldorf, Frankfurt and Munich. Peschke joined Pinsents as a partner in the Düsseldorf office in […]

The Lawyer European Awards 2022: who’s made the shortlist?

The Lawyer European Awards is back and ready to crown the crème de la crème of the European legal market next month. Here is the shortlist. This year, 24 prizes are up for grabs as law firms, in-house teams and networks battle for regional accolades, the best initiatives and teams of the year across several practice […]

Ince to sell Gibraltar businesses to two employees

The Ince Group is to sell two more businesses, this time its subsidiaries Ince Gibraltar and Ince Consultancy Gibraltar. The companies are to be sold to two of Ince’s employees for £700,000, in a move that the firm claims will help its European business better focus on core legal matters. Peter Howitt, managing director of […]

Squires lands new restructuring hire in Paris

Another partner from Brown Rudnick’s restructuring team has joined Squire Patton Boggs, this time in Paris. Arnaud Moussatoff, who is based in the French capital, is moving to Squires after nearly four years as a partner at Brown Rudnick. Before that he was a counsel at DLA Piper. His move follows a five-person exodus from […]

Fast fashion giant Shein hires ex-CC lawyer as GC

Online fast fashion retailer Shein has hired Yinan Zhu as its new general counsel (GC) of Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA). Zhu, who has joined from My Inhouse Lawyer after a three-year stint as principal, has been brought in to support the company’s activity in the region. She began her career as an associate […]

No ordinary grief: The plight of lawyers leaving Ukraine

There is no sense of ordinary grief facing Ukrainians this independence day: leaving your life and watching your homeland be subject to violence is far from ordinary. Yet it is estimated that 6.6 million people have left Ukraine since the war began in February 2022. Three years ago in Odessa, Ukraine, the only physical sign […]

The Lawyer European Awards to honour Ukrainian firms

The Lawyer European Awards has become a unique fixture in the events calendar, recognising firms from 13 jurisdictions and with 12 further categories showcasing excellence in transactional work and service delivery. However, this year it takes place against a backdrop of war. The Awards will therefore celebrate the community of lawyers across Europe and highlight […]

Arnold & Porter launches Amsterdam office with two-strong hire

US firm Arnold & Porter has launched an office in the Dutch capital of Amsterdam as it bids to take advantage of the city’s life sciences market. The firm has hired Hoyng Rokh Monegier (HRM) partner Carla Schoonderbeek to lead the office, with HRM counsel Bart Jong also joining as a partner. It is understood […]

Goodwin continues Munich growth with finance lateral

Goodwin has followed up on the launch of its Munich office with the hire of a leveraged finance partner from rival US firm Shearman & Sterling. Winfried Carli was a long-term Shearman lawyer, spending 22 years at his previous firm before joining Goodwin’s Munich outpost. Much of Carli’s work focuses on both domestic and cross-border […]

“We press a button daily to let everyone know we’re safe” – CMS Ukraine managing partner on how it feels to be uprooted during war

Every day, employees of CMS’ Kyiv office receive a phone alert urging them to press a button to let the rest of the displaced office know they are safe. With operational hubs in Budapest and Western Ukraine, the office has faced unquestionable challenges as it continuously works to monitor the safety of all 65 staff […]

Europe is old-school when it comes to women

The European 100 has made some progress on gender diversity in the last five years as a bloc but some firms remain some way off

A postcard from Warsaw: Big-ticket deals, but worries for the future

On a June day in 2022, The Lawyer visited several of Warsaw’s top international firms to see how this apparently thriving market is holding up four months after the launch of a war on its neighbour, Ukraine. What impact has the dramatic events of the past few months had on the city, its legal services […]

European 100: Combined revenue reaches all-time high of €12.2bn

The record growth seen among swathes of US firms last year was echoed across Continental Europe, as 2021 saw the largest jump in combined revenue in the history of The Lawyer’s Euro 100 report. The combined revenue of all 100 firms for the 2021 financial year grew by roughly €1bn between 2020 and 2021, rising […]

Fieldfisher aims to double Dutch headcount by 2027

Fieldfisher’s recently appointed Dutch co-managing partners have set the ambitious target of doubling lawyer headcount in The Netherlands within the next five years. Corporate partner Franz-Josef Crousen and finance partner Marinus de Waal took over from former Dutch managing partner and insolvency litigator Marcel Willems who stepped down earlier this year. Crousen and de Waal […]

Browne Jacobson unveils first overseas office

Browne Jacobson, a firm with five offices across the UK, is to open its first base overseas later this month.

Freshfields lands on Slovakia for new support office

Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer is looking to open a shared services operation in Slovakia, seven years after launching a similar offering in Manchester. The office would open in Bratislava, while Freshfields’ IT support function is also set for a reorganisation under the proposed changes. The firm is currently in discussions with an external provider Atos as […]

A&O set to launch in Dublin

Allen & Overy is on the lookout for space in Dublin, as it seeks regulatory approval to practise from the Republic of Ireland capital. The Lawyer understands the purpose of the outpost is to accommodate the firm’s latest litigation addition David Herlihy, who joined the magic circle firm last month after more than 20 years […]

European verein offers secondments to junior lawyers

In a push to build integration, the three constituent firms of European verein Advant have formalised an internal secondment scheme offering junior lawyers and legal professionals the opportunity to work from offices in three countries. Lawyers will be offered the chance to work in six offices across the Advant network with places available in Berlin, […]

Goodwin opens long-awaited Munich office for German PE push

US firm Goodwin has launched its second German office as the firm aims to become a major player in Munich’s private equity space. The Munich office is Goodwin’s 14th globally. It has been opened with an intense focus on private equity given Munich’s role as the nexus of German PE. Goodwin’s Munich launch will come as […]

Linklaters partner exits in Brussels for Cooley

Cooley has added its third lateral to the firm’s global competition practice in two weeks, this time hiring a longstanding Linklaters partner. Jonas Koponen is moving to Cooley’s Brussels office after two decades at the magic circle firm. During his time at Linklaters, he served as its global head of competition between 2015 and 2019. […]

Addleshaws continues European expansion with two German offices

Addleshaw Goddard has launched long-awaited offices in Frankfurt and Munich, making a string of partner hires in Germany as it continues its aggressive expansion push into Continental Europe. In total, the firm brought in four new teams in Germany, strengthening its commercial litigation, global investigations, tax and intellectual property offerings in two of Germany’s key […]

White & Case’s Slovakian team break away to form new firm

White & Case’s Bratislava office is to split away from the US firm becoming an independent legal outfit. The new firm Aldertree legal will be led by Juraj Fuska, a White & Case partner who currently heads the firm’s Bratislava base. The corporate lawyer was promoted to partner in 2017. White & Case’s office, which […]

Osborne Clarke breaks into Warsaw with 30-strong office

Osborne Clarke has marked its Polish debut by bringing two teams together to launch its an office in Warsaw.

Live blog: War in Ukraine

Law firm leaders are facing tough decisions as to how they respond to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Bird & Bird opens new Dublin office

Bird & Bird will mark its Irish debut by opening its first office in Dublin later this summer. The new outpost will be focused on the areas of privacy, data protection, technology, life sciences, intellectual property and corporate law. The firm has recruited specialists in Ireland for the new practice and it is anticipated to […]

Addleshaws merges with 25-partner Irish firm

The latest stage in its European expansion, Addleshaw Goddard has merged with a Dublin-based firm marking its third significant opening in as many years.

Kinstellar acquires 30-strong firm for Croatia launch

CEE firm Kinstellar has launched in a new jurisdiction after merging with Croatian firm Žurić i Partneri (ZIP). The deal gives Kinstellar a presence in the Croatian capital of Zagreb along with an established team of five partners and a further 17 lawyers with business services staff bringing the total headcount to 27. ZIP launched […]

Philip Morris’ trademarks legal chief to stand down

Philip Morris’ assistant general counsel for trademarks, copyright and design will be standing down at the end of February after working more than nine years at the company. Barry Gerber joined Philip Morris in 2012 and has been responsible for leading the team’s trademarks, copyright and design function. He also oversees the clearance, registration and […]

Shoosmiths launches new outpost in Brussels

Shoosmiths has opened an office in the city of Brussels, drafting in EY’s Kiran Desai to take the helm of its base. The recent branch is the firm’s first office outside the UK. It is anticipated the move will help bolster its clients’ needs for UK and EU competition, regulatory and trade law. It also […]

Fried Frank is latest US firm to debut in Brussels

Fried Frank Harris Shriver & Jacobson is opening an office in Brussels, the latest US firm to set up shop in the Belgian capital. The move is aimed at making the most of financial and regulatory hubs where it operates, with a view of using the Brussels office to work on EU merger control proceedings […]

A&O hits Sidley Austin for key antitrust hire

Allen & Overy (A&O) has strengthened its antitrust capabilities by hiring Sidley Austin’s global co-head of the practice, Kristina Nordlander. Nordlander will join as a partner in A&O’s antitrust team in London, while also continuing to spend time working out of the key European antitrust hub of Brussels. She joins A&O with a wealth of […]

HSF wins mandate as Altice ups BT stake

Herbert Smith Freehills (HSF) has provided legal advice to Patrick Drahi’s telecommunications company Altice, as it raises its stake in BT from 12 per cent to 18 per cent. HSF was led by corporate partner Mark Bardell and supported by senior associate Brian O’Malley and associate Claire Bamford. Altice led the deal, with BT understood […]

Taylor Wessing raids Deloitte Legal for 10-strong Warsaw team

Two partners are switching from Deloitte Legal to Taylor Wessing in Poland, taking with them their team of banking, finance and real estate lawyers. Partner Łukasz Szymański joined Taylor Wessing earlier this month, while partner Zbigniew Korba will join in the next two months. Szymański provides legal services to banks, insurers, leasing companies, finance companies […]

Linklaters’ election challenger takes new leadership role

The main contender in last summer’s managing partner race at Linklaters is taking on a new role as regional leader, as the firm continues to refresh its upper ranks. Andreas Steck, who ran against winner Paul Lewis in the leadership contest, has been appointed regional managing partner. In this function, he will be aided by […]

Greenberg hires seven-strong group in Warsaw

After a group left its office for CMS last month, Greenberg Traurig has hired seven lawyers from several firms in Warsaw. Dentons real estate partner Maciej Jodkowski makes the move, along with his colleagues, senior associates Karol Lewandowski and Alicja Kwiatkowska. The real estate group are joined by Deloitte Legal managing associate Karolina Tulwin and […]

Weil Gotshal set to revive Brussels operations

Weil Gotshal & Manges has set its sights on a new office in Brussels, 14 years after shutting its operations in the Belgian capital. The US firm is planning an opening in the coming months, The Lawyer understands. The project is driven by newly-hired Clifford Chance partner Jenine Hulsmann, who has been tasked with leading […]

The Lawyer European Awards 2021: who has made the shortlist?

The crème de la crème of the European legal market will fight it out to be crowned The Lawyer‘s European Firm of the Year next month. Here is the shortlist. Law firms, in-house teams and networks compete across 24 categories, including regional accolades and prizes celebrating best in class across a range of practice areas. […]

Boies Schiller raids Italian firm ahead of Milan launch

Boies Schiller Flexner has hired a team of at least 15 lawyers from an Italian firm to spearhead the opening of its first office in Italy. The litigation and arbitration team, led by four partners, comes from law and tax firm RP Legal & Tax, which has seven offices across Italy. Founded in 1949, it […]

CMS hires 10-strong team for Warsaw expansion

CMS is set to swoop on a team of real estate lawyers from a US firm, building on further hires already made in the CEE region. The Lawyer understands that a team of three partners and seven associates are to make the move from Greenberg Traurig. The team is led by partner Agata Jurek-Zbrojska, alongside […]

Boies Schiller to launch Italian office

Boies Schiller Flexner is opening an office in Milan. It is understood logistical plans are yet to be finalised, though co-founder David Boies confirmed the intention with Italian media. Managing partner Alan Vickery said in a statement: “Our Milan office gives Boies Schiller a gateway to the EU, something of particular importance post-Brexit, and a […]

Shearman swoops in on DLA Paris team

Shearman & Sterling has raided DLA Piper by bringing in a corporate and finance team to its Paris outpost. The firm has hired DLA Piper’s co-managing partner of France, Xavier Norlain, as well as location heads and partners Jeremy Scemama and Maud Manon, and Matthieu Lampel. Manon is location head of finance and projects at […]

A&L Goodbody names corporate head as new leader

The partners of Irish firm A&L Goodbody have named corporate head David Widger as the firm’s next managing partner.

Four-strong White & Case team joins BCLP in Paris

Bryan Cave Leighton Paisner has expanded its French litigation and investigations practice, with the appointment of two new partners. The firm has hired White & Case partner Philippe Métais, head of its commercial and civil litigation group in Paris. He joined the firm in 1987. Making the move alongside him is Elodie Valette, a White […]

The top 100 European law firms

This post has been updated with The Lawyer’s 2021 ranking of the top 100 European law firms by revenue. For many firms in Europe, the difficulties of 2020 turned out to be how to meet capacity when workflows roared back in the second half, and how to keep their staff motivated through waves of lockdowns […]

Clifford Chance takes lead on Volvo’s Swedish IPO

Clifford Chance is advising Swedish carmaker Volvo on its planned listing, as the group looks to raise approximately $2.8bn. The IPO, on Nasdaq Stockholm, will entail new shares issued by Volvo Cars, which is owned by Chinese-headquartered Geely. It is expected to raise $2.8bn alongside the sale of its parent company’s shares. Geely became a […]

Partners Group head of legal departs for new role

Partners Group’s global head of legal has departed after two years for food impact investor Blue Horizon. Anela Musat moved in-house to Swiss-based global private equity house Partners Group in September 2019 from CMS Cameron McKenna, where she was a partner in the firm’s City private equity team. Sam Rozati, who has been at Partners […]

HSF and A&O spearhead £125m SPAC listing

Herbert Smith Freehills and Allen & Overy are leading on British finance veteran Edi Truell’s plans to list a blank cheque vehicle in Amsterdam, in what would be the first special purpose acquisition company (SPAC) since the summer. Disruptive Capital Acquisition Company would look to raise up to £125m from its listing to target a […]

Global verein founded by Fidal and Luther expands to Italy

A newly-created global verein, led by two of the largest European firms, has added an Italian player as its third member. Italian law firm Pirola Pennuto Zei & Associati has joined as the Italian member firm of unyer, a global multi-disciplinary platform founded by the largest French firm Fidal and Germany’s Luther in May 2021. […]

Goodwin raises German pay after UK salary bump

Goodwin has raised its associate salaries in Germany by 25 per cent, The Lawyer understands, after similar increases in the UK. The firm’s first-year associates, a category that corresponds roughly to newly-qualified lawyers, will see their package go up from €130,000 to €160,000. Last July, Goodwin raised its NQ salaries in London by 6 per […]

Goodwin strikes Dechert again to boost Paris ranks

Goodwin has hired a new partner from Dechert to bolster its life sciences and tech practice in France. Intellectual property partner Marie Fillon will work with Paris-based technology and life sciences partners Anne-Charlotte Rivière, Thomas Dupont-Sentilles and Benjamin Garçon. Rivière was also hired last April from Dechert to kickstart the practice. An expert on IP […]

Linklaters hires DLA Piper team in Italy

In a boost for its real estate group in Milan and Rome, Linklaters has added a new team from DLA Piper. The magic circle firm has recruited Francesco De Blasio as its new practice head in the country, having been promoted to DLA’s partnership in 2012. He is joined by fellow DLA lawyers Francesco Macrì […]

Taylor Wessing eyes big pharma investment as Dublin hub launches

While many firms have placed competition and regulatory at the heart of their Dublin strategy, Taylor Wessing has said its new office will focus on picking up new tech and life sciences business as private equity interest grows. The firm recently hired Adam Griffiths to lead the new operations, who was previously a member of […]

Addleshaws continues Paris push with Ashurst hire

Addleshaw Goddard has added to its new Paris office with a competition partner hire from Ashurst. Michaël Cousin joins as the first lateral that Addleshaws has made in the French capital since opening in January. For its launch, the firm picked up 22 lawyers from from Bryan Cave Leighton Paisner (BCLP) and K&L Gates. The office […]

Hogan Lovells’ ex-Brussels chief joins King & Spalding

The former head of Hogan Lovells’ Brussels office has left the firm for King & Spalding’s fledgling operations in the city. Salomé Cisnal De Ugarte will be King & Spalding’s third partner in the Belgian capital. She joins international trade partner Marie-Sophie Dibling, who got the office up and running in June 2019 after a career […]

CEE special report: Renewables are green for go

Changes in legislation are sparking a surge in solar and wind energy projects across central and south-eastern Europe

Dentons’ European arm reinstates monthly drawings

The European arm of Dentons is to restore full monthly drawings for its partnership, representing the last of the firm’s resilience measures adopted at the start of the pandemic. Drawings will be reinstated as of August having been reduced by 20 per cent for over a year. While similar cuts to business support teams’ salaries […]

Ireland special report: A perfect storm for private equity deals

International firms are making their presence felt in Ireland, undeterred by the twin challenges of Brexit and Covid-19

Goodwin gears up for Munich office launch

Goodwin has taken space in Munich after a spate of hires, The Lawyer has learned, in an expansion initiative led by one of its recent recruits. It is understood that the firm has signed a lease for temporary space in the Ludwigpalais building in Ludwigstrasse, in the business hotspot of the Bavarian capital. Private equity […]

The Euro 100 2021: Charting the evolution of Europe’s biggest firms

2020 was an unusual year for firms on the Continent, with revenues hit by the pandemic – but what is the big picture of how they are faring and how does the Euro top 10 compare to that of a decade ago?

K&L Gates is the latest firm to launch in Luxembourg

K&L Gates has merged with Luxembourg boutique Volckrick & Associates, adding the country as its eighth location in Europe. Through the combination, a three-lawyer team of Volckrick & Associates has joined K&L Gates. Led by partner Mathieu Volckrick, the team focuses strongly on asset management, investment funds, real estate and private equity. Prior to setting […]

Clifford Chance offers Covid jabs to German staff

Clifford Chance has started an internal vaccination campaign, The Lawyer can reveal, administering Covid-19 vaccines in-house to its German headcount. It is understood that the magic circle firm has ordered around 110 doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, recently branded under the name Comirnaty, as part of two rounds of vaccinations available to about 700 staff […]

Kirkland expands Paris office with new Willkie joiner

Kirkland & Ellis has hired a funds lawyer from Willkie Farr & Gallagher, in a practice area-first for the firm’s French operations. Willkie associate Raphaël Bloch is joining Kirkland as a partner in Paris. He has been at Willkie for over four years, joining the Paris team from King & Wood Mallesons and having trained […]

Magic circle duo win panel places for global RE investor

Cromwell Property Group has finalised its new European panel, after assessing firms on metrics including diversity, ESG and their gearing in revenue per lawyer and profit per equity partner. The Australia-based real estate investor and manager has wrapped up its review, which began at the beginning of 2021 after an assessment of its group strategy […]

CMS joins forces with 150-lawyer Norwegian firm

CMS has struck a deal with Norwegian firm Kluge, a local operation comprised of over 150 lawyers. The international player has added Kluge to its network as a full member firm. It will be known as CMS Kluge from October this year. CMS has offices across 44 different counties, though few of the giant global […]

DLA Piper’s 40-strong Ukraine office snapped up by Kinstellar

DLA Piper is closing its third European base in four years, with its Kyiv office moving across to Kinstellar to create a 60-lawyer operation. Headed up by corporate M&A partner Margarita Karpenko, DLA’s entire Ukraine office has been acquired by CEE firm Kinstellar. Karpenko and senior counsel Daniel Bilak will form the management committee of […]

Bakers duo exit for Latham in Germany

Latham & Watkins has boosted its European corporate ranks with the hire of two Baker McKenzie partners in its Düsseldorf office. The firm has taken on M&A experts Ingo Strauss and Heiko Gotsche. The two will work as partners in the corporate department and as part of the PE and M&A teams. They both have […]

Kirkland follows Simpson Thacher with Brussels launch

Kirkland & Ellis has launched a competition-focused Brussels office as part of its post-Brexit strategy. The US firm has opened doors in the Belgian city in a bid to handle cases before the European Commission and courts, especially when it comes to merger control. It is understood that the office will be led by London […]

Ashurst brings in former Deutsche Bank GC as partner

Ashurst has brought Deutsche Bank’s former general counsel Florian Drinhausen into its corporate practice in Frankfurt. Drinhausen departed Deutsche Bank last May after serving just two years as GC & chief governance officer. Before going in-house to the bank in 2014, he had been at Linklaters for 13 years, including serving as the magic circle […]

Hogan Lovells invests in Brussels with PwC team hire

Hogan Lovells has recruited a five-lawyer finance team from PwC for its Brussels base. Finance veteran Ivan Peeters and partner Philip Van Steenwinkel join the firm alongside three associates. Both Peeters and Van Steenwinkel have been at PwC since 2018, which they joined from the Belgian branch of Benelux firm Stibbe. Before this, the duo […]

Clifford Chance drives strategy to unite Continental European offices

Clifford Chance is spearheading a strategy that will see its Continental European offices brought into a single profit and loss account, The Lawyer can reveal. The project, internally known as ‘One Europe’, has been developed by the firm’s senior leadership in a bid to treat its offices across the UK and Continental Europe as a single team, […]

Nokia to test panel firms with new scorecard system

Nokia is to assess six panel firms on their equity, inclusion and diversity (E, I&D) credentials through a new scorecard system. As part of the initiative, Nokia’s legal and compliance organisation will conduct quarterly and annual assessments of its key panel law firms. The initiative was presented to firms in March, with Eversheds Sutherland, Roschier, […]

Clifford Chance replenishes Munich office with Kirkland trio

Clifford Chance has hired a team from Kirkland & Ellis into its Munich office, months after the departure of two partners to Milbank. The magic circle firm has taken on private equity partners Volkmar Bruckner and Mark Aschenbrenner, who join alongside senior associate Samuel Frommelt. Bruckner has a long track record of representing private equity […]

Brexit sparks new Stephenson Harwood entity in Greece

While some firms opened offices in Dublin to avoid Brexit disruption, Stephenson Harwood set up a legal entity in Greece, its LLPs have revealed. To avoid any potential problems caused by Brexit, Stephenson Harwood has launched Bowen-Morris & Partners in Piraeus. This new entity emerged after the firm converted the branch to a Greek law […]

Fidal and Luther launch Franco-German alliance

Two of the Continent’s biggest legal players, French giant Fidal and German independent Luther, are launching an exclusive association under the umbrella of a Swiss Verein. The two firms, whose collective turnover approaches €500m, are vowing to remain independent but share resources under the Unyer brand to serve international clients with inbound European work. According […]

Cromwell Property Group to halve size of new European panel

Cromwell Property Group is seeking to halve the number of firms it uses across Europe as part of its review process. The Australia-based real estate investor and manager kicked off the review at the beginning of 2021 after an assessment of its group strategy in Q2 2020. Cromwell has historically had a number of country […]

Mannheimer posts modest revenue growth after China exit

Sweden’s largest firm Mannheimer Swartling has posted a modest revenue increase of 2.9 per cent for 2020, a year when the firm pulled out of Greater China. Mannheimer’s turnover rose 2.9 per cent from SEK1.4bn to SEK1.44bn in an unprecedented year hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. The result comes after the firm recently closed its […]

Freshfields nabs Linklaters trade expert in Government work drive

Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer has hired a Government trade adviser as part of the firm’s plans to scale up its London capabilities post-Brexit. The magic circle firm has attracted Linklaters senior consultant Lorand Bartels, who is also a specialist adviser to the UK House of Commons Select Committee on International Trade. The hire was pursued by […]

Linklaters names co-heads of new Dublin office

A group of Linklaters partners are getting ready to split their time between London and Dublin, as the firm gears up for its launch in the city next month. The one-floor office is set to open on the 1st of May in a building overlooking the city’s signature Merrion Square. As part of the process, […]

Overseas law schools enter super-exam prep market with BARBRI tie-up

Three more overseas legal education providers are to offer prep courses for the new Solicitors Qualification Exam (SQE). Spain’s IE Law School, Paris Dauphine – PSL University of France and Singapore-based Asia Bar Review have all partnered with BARBRI to offer the course to international students. US-founded BARBRI arrived in the UK some years ago […]

New GC revealed ahead of £31bn O2 and Virgin merger

Virgin Media and O2 have appointed a new general counsel, as the two companies prepare to finalise their bumper merger deal. Telefónica’s chief policy officer Enrique Medina Malo is set to become GC of the £31bn business, after the tie-up was agreed last year between O2’s owner Telefónica and Virgin Media’s parent company Liberty Global. […]

US trio lead on Oatly IPO

White & Case, Latham & Watkins and Weil Gotshal & Manges are lined up on Blackstone-backed Oatly’s US initial public offering (IPO). White & Case is leading for Malmö-based Oatly from its Stockholm office, led by private equity partner Shoan Panahi while Latham is acting for the brand on US matters. The Latham team is […]

Goodwin launches life sciences practice in Paris

Goodwin is starting a life sciences and tech practice in France with the hire of a partner from Dechert. The firm has taken on local partner Anne-Charlotte Riviere, who will join after 12 years at the rival US firm. As part of her practice, she advises life sciences and tech companies as well as investment […]

Linklaters lures Freshfields PE partner in Paris

Linklaters has hired a corporate partner from Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, in a rare magic circle move in Paris. Partner Florent Mazeron has been a corporate partner within its global transactions practice and a member of the global financial investors group for seven years. He focuses on major private equity transactions in relation to both public […]

Taylor Wessing to join flurry of firms in Dublin

Taylor Wessing is to open an office in Dublin, as a swathe of firms expand their footprint in the region. The expansion into Dublin comes after the completion of the Brexit transition period. It is understood the motive was a request from a