By Movieguide® Contributor

SCOOBY-DOO is getting a new live-action series on Netflix.

SCOOBY-DOO! THE LIVE-ACTION SERIES is a “one-hour drama project [and] is said to be nearing a deal at the streamer with a script-to-series commitment. Exact plot details are being kept under wraps aside from the fact it will be based on the Hanna-Barbera cartoon. Warner Bros. Television will produce, with the studio having recently launched the DEAD BOY DETECTIVES series at Netflix,” Variety reported.

The show is written by Josh Applebaum and Scott Rosenberg. Appelbaum and Rosenberg along with Greg Berlanti, Sarah Schechter and Leigh London Redman for Berlanti Productions and André Nemec and Jeff Pinkner under their Midnight Radio banner will executive produce.

SCOOBY-DOO! was originally created in 1969 as an animated series by Joe Ruby and Ken Spears, and its influence never quite faded.

Although the show was canceled in 1986, spinoff cartoons and films have been made ever since.

“More recently, Warners corporate sibling Max launched an animated spinoff, VELMA, geared toward adults. (Season two of the series from exec producer and voice star Mindy Kaling, debuted in April and is awaiting word on its future),” The Hollywood Reporter wrote.

Other spinoffs include “A PUP NAMED SCOOBY-DOO! [which] aired from 1988-91. Two SCOOBY-DOO! reboots premiered as part of Kids’ WB on The WB and its successor The CW from 2002-08. Further reboots were produced for Cartoon Network beginning in 2010 and continuing through 2018. Boomerang premiered original animated series SCOOBY-DOO! and GUESS WHO? on its streaming service in 2019 and later on Max.”

A live-action film was released in 2002. It starred Freddie Prinze Jr. as Fred, Sarah Michelle Gellar as Daphne, Matthew Lillard as Shaggy and Linda Cardellini as Velma.

Then, a sequel was released in 2004, and in 2020, an animated movie called SCOOB! debuted.

Part of Movieguide®’s review for SCOOB! reads:

SCOOB! is a new Scooby-Doo feature length animated movie that begins with an short origin story about how Scooby met Shaggy, Fred, Daphne, and Velma. After exposing a fake haunted house hiding stolen loot, the children decide to solve mysteries. Ten years later, Shaggy and Scooby are kicked out of Mystery, Inc. because an investor thinks they contribute nothing to the company. Fred, Daphne and Velma learn otherwise, when Shaggy and Scoob team up with the Blue Falcon to stop a villain trying to get his hands on the treasure of Alexander the Great. The gates hiding the treasure may also stop a monster from getting loose, however.

SCOOB! is an exciting, funny, touching parable on friendship. The jokes and the adventure fly rather swiftly, so the pace never lets up. However, the filmmakers know enough to pause the action just long enough to insert some heart into the story. Ultimately, friendship saves the day in SCOOB!, but the movie also contains some double entendres and lots of cartoon violence featuring scary robots and a scary monster. So, MOVIEGUIDE® advises caution for children.