Quick facts for kids

A Pup Named Scooby-Doo Genre

Mystery

Comedy horror

Self-parody

Based on Scooby-Doo, Where Are You!, by Joe Ruby and Ken Spears Developed by Tom Ruegger Directed by

Don Lusk

Art Davis (Season 1)

Oscar Dufau (Season 1)

Bob Goe (Season 1)

Paul Sommer (Seasons 1–2)

Ray Patterson (Season 2; also supervising director)

Robert Alvarez (Season 3)

Carl Urbano (Season 4)

Voices of Theme music composer John Debney Opening theme "A Pup Named Scooby-Doo" Composer(s) John Debney Country of origin United States Original language(s) English No. of seasons 4 No. of episodes 27 (list of episodes) Production Executive producer(s)

William Hanna

Joseph Barbera

Paul Sabella (executive producer/co-executive producer, Season 3–4) Mark Young (co-executive producer, Season 4 only)

Producer(s)

Tom Ruegger (Season 1)

Lane Raichert (Season 2–3)

Craig Zukowski (Season 4)

Scott Jeralds (associate producer, Season 4 only)

Editor(s)

Gil Iverson (Season 1–3)

Tim Iverson (Season 4)

Running time 22 minutes approx. Production company(s) Hanna-Barbera Productions Distributor Worldvision Enterprises Release Original network ABC Audio format Stereo Original release September 10, 1988 ( ) – August 17, 1991 (1991-08-17) Chronology Preceded by The 13 Ghosts of Scooby-Doo (1985) Followed by What's New, Scooby-Doo? (2002–06)

A Pup Named Scooby-Doo is an American animated mystery comedy series produced by Hanna-Barbera. It is the eighth incarnation of the studio's Scooby-Doo franchise and depicts younger versions of the title character and his human companions as they solve mysteries, similar to the original television series. The series was developed by Tom Ruegger and premiered on September 10, 1988, airing for four seasons on ABC as well as during the syndicated block The Funtastic World of Hanna-Barbera until August 17, 1991.

Along with most of Hanna-Barbera's production staff, Ruegger departed from the studio after the first season and Don Lusk, a longtime animator for the Disney and Bill Melendez animation studios, took over as director. A Pup Named Scooby-Doo is the final television series in the franchise in which Don Messick portrayed Scooby-Doo before his death in 1997 and one of the few in the franchise in which someone other than Frank Welker voiced the character of Fred Jones (child actor Carl Steven took on the role for this series; Welker voiced other bit roles in the series, including Fred's uncle Ed). Messick and Casey Kasem, the latter of whom voiced Shaggy Rogers, were the only two voice actors from other Scooby-Doo series to reprise their roles and both received starring credits for their work.

Episodes

Main article: List of A Pup Named Scooby-Doo episodes

List of A Pup Named Scooby-Doo episodes

Characters

Main article: List of Scooby-Doo characters

Main

Scooby-Doo (voiced by Don Messick) – The main character of the series and the mascot of the Scooby-Doo Detective Agency. Messick also voiced several other characters in the show.

Shaggy (voiced by Casey Kasem) – Scooby-Doo's best friend. Kasem also voices Shaggy's Dad and additional voices.

Fred (voiced by Carl Steven) – The scatterbrained leader of the Scooby-Doo Detective Agency.

Daphne (voiced by Kellie Martin) – A wealthy child with a haughty and sarcastic personality and wears white go-go boots.

Velma (voiced by Christina Lange) – An intelligent, but shy and soft-spoken girl.

Supporting

Red Herring (voiced by Scott Menville) – Otherwise known as the town bully in which Freddie nearly always pointed the blame and was always wrong, although in one episode "Night of the Boogey Biker," ended up being right as Red was found to be the villain, despite the fact that he did not accuse him because Daphne bet Freddie that he couldn't go 24 hours without accusing him. He often torments the gang but is always thwarted. Among his catchphrases are "Hah! What a weenie!" "That's not very funny" and "I didn't do it, Jones!" His name is a reference to the idiom "red herring."

Sugie (voiced by B. J. Ward) – Sugie is Shaggy's baby sister with her name being pronounced "shoogy." She only appeared in two episodes. She is Shaggy's favorite "non-puppy person" in the world. She has a baby bag which contains her favorite boulder, a crib, her string collection, a refrigerator containing her baby food among various other items. Sugie appeared in The New Scooby and Scrappy-Doo Show episode "Wedding Bell Boos" as the bride-to-be in 1983, using her given name of Maggie Rogers.

Gus – Gus is the janitor of Coolsville Junior High. He is an inventor. It is shown that he also works at Coolsville Mall (and possibly for the Blakes). He has a fondness for Velma and will do anything to help her.

O'Greasy (voiced by Charlie Adler) – O'Greasy is the owner of O'Greasy restaurants, a fast food chain which serves every meal in a bucket. O'Greasy once had competitor named Arnie Barney who used to serve his fast food in bags until O'Greasy blew his business out of the water. The gang helps him when a burger monster threatened to close his restaurants down.

Carole Colossal – Carole Colossal is the owner of Colossal Toys and later the Coolsville Wrestling Federation (CWF). She also is the creator of Commander Cool. The gang helps her when her business and the Commander Cool toyline is in danger.

Barbara Simone – Barbara Simone is Carole Colossal's secretary. She tried to destroy Colossal's business by stealing and selling blueprints for its Commander Cool toyline, but was foiled by the Scooby-Doo Detective Agency in "The Return of Commander Cool". She is so efficient as a secretary that Carole Colossal got her a license to leave prison to resume her work in "Wrestle Maniacs" where she appears wearing the traditional black-and-white stripped prison uniform and has an officer following her wherever she goes. With that, she became the only character (other than Red) to reappear in another episode after being unmasked.

Jenkins (voiced by Don Messick) – Jenkins is Daphne's butler, whom she calls in to do various tasks. He responds whenever his name is called (He once showed up after thinking Velma said "Jenkins," when she really said "Jinkies"). The one time he didn't respond to Daphne's call, a butler named Dawson responded for him and told Daphne that Jenkins was busy doing her shopping, which she deemed an acceptable excuse. Dawson seems to be as efficient as Jenkins.

See also