Bruce Willis and Emma Heming Willis have a lot of love for each other.

Willis and Heming Willis tied the knot in 2009 and have been giving us glimpses of their love story ever since.

In addition to supporting each other at various events, the couple also have two children together: Mabel Ray, born in April 2012, and Evelyn Penn, born in May 2014. Heming Willis is also stepmom to the actor's three eldest daughters — Rumer Willis, Scout Willis and Tallulah Willis — whom he shares with ex-wife Demi Moore.

Most recently, Heming Willis has been by Willis' side following his aphasia diagnosis in March 2022.

"We are moving through this as a strong family unit, and wanted to bring his fans in because we know how much he means to you, as you do to him. As Bruce always says, 'Live it up' and together we plan to do just that," she wrote on Instagram at the time.

Take a look back at their relationship timeline over the years.

2007: Bruce Willis and Emma Heming Willis first meet

The couple first met in 2007. They later stepped out together in January 2008, when Heming accompanied Willis to the premiere of his film What Just Happened? at the Sundance Film Festival.

"When we first met, I was surprised at how charming and how funny he was – and extremely handsome," Heming Willis told PEOPLE of their first meeting, to which Willis added, "I was already in love with her."

March 24, 2008: Bruce Willis and Emma Heming Willis attend Flawless premiere with Demi Moore

In March 2008, Willis turned the premiere of his film Flawless into a family affair as he was joined by Heming, daughter Tallulah, and ex-wife Moore at the afterparty. During the party, the blended family was all smiles as they posed for a group photo together.

"Demi and Emma are very close," a source previously told PEOPLE in 2020 as they all quarantined together amid the COVID-19 pandemic. "They have vacationed together many times in the past and get along great. It really is one happy family."

March 21, 2009: Bruce Willis and Emma Heming Willis get married

After more than one year of dating, the couple tied the knot in Turks and Caicos in March 2009.

May 4, 2009: Bruce Willis and Emma Heming Willis make their red carpet debut as a married couple

A few months after becoming husband and wife, Willis and Heming Willis made their red carpet debut as a married couple at the 2009 Met Gala. The pair had that newlywed glow as they flashed big smiles for the cameras while holding hands.

April 1, 2012: Bruce Willis and Emma Heming Willis welcome their first child together

In October 2011, Willis' rep confirmed to PEOPLE that he and Heming Willis were expecting their first child together.

The couple "are overjoyed with this news and they look forward to welcoming this newest addition into their family," the statement read.

In April 2012, Heming Willis gave birth to a baby girl named Mabel Ray Willis. The baby marked the first child for Heming Willis and the fourth for the actor.

May 5, 2014: Bruce Willis and Emma Heming Willis welcome their second child together

In December 2013, PEOPLE reported that the couple was expecting their second child together. They later confirmed the news in March 2014 when Willis cradled Heming Willis' baby bump at the Vanity Fair Oscar Party.

In May 2014, Heming Willis gave birth to a baby girl named Evelyn Penn Willis. "Both mother and baby are healthy and doing beautifully," the actor's rep said in a statement at the time. "Mabel is delighted to have a new baby sister."

March 19, 2015: Bruce Willis and Emma Heming Willis celebrate his 60th birthday

Heming Willis was by the actor's side as he rang in his 60th birthday in March 2015. For the special occasion, Willis hosted a star-studded bash at Harlow in New York City.

Following the event, Heming Willis celebrated by sharing a cute photo of her and Willis in the photo booth, writing "It's fair to say the birthday boy had a great time #BWBirthdayBash."

July 14, 2018: Emma Heming Willis attends Bruce Willis' Comedy Central Roast

In July 2018, Heming Willis attended the taping of Willis' Comedy Central Roast alongside his daughters Rumer, Tallulah, and Scout. The special also included appearances from some of Willis' costars and friends, including Edward Norton, Cybill Shepherd, Martha Stewart, Dennis Rodman, Jeff Ross and his ex-wife Moore, who cracked a few jokes about the actor on stage.

March 21, 2019: Bruce Willis and Emma Heming Willis celebrate their 10th wedding anniversary

In March 2019, Willis and Heming Willis celebrated their 10th wedding anniversary with a sweet vow renewal ceremony. "We said, we do, again, 10 years later," Heming Willis wrote on Instagram, adding the hashtag "#happyanniversarymylove."

Sept. 23, 2019: Bruce Willis and Emma Heming Willis celebrate Demi Moore's book release

In September 2019, Heming Willis and Willis supported Moore at the book party for her memoir release, Inside Out. The couple posed alongside Moore and her daughters with Willis, Rumer, Scout and Tallulah, during the event.

March 20, 2022: Emma Heming Willis shares Bruce Willis' aphasia diagnosis

In March 2022, Heming Willis revealed that Willis was stepping away from acting after being diagnosed with aphasia.

"To Bruce's amazing supporters, as a family we wanted to share that our beloved Bruce has been experiencing some health issues and has recently been diagnosed with aphasia, which is impacting his cognitive abilities. As a result of this and with much consideration Bruce is stepping away from the career that has meant so much to him," the Instagram post, which was also shared by Willis' daughters and ex-wife, read.

The post continued, "This is a really challenging time for our family and we are so appreciative of your continued love, compassion and support. We are moving through this as a strong family unit, and wanted to bring his fans in because we know how much he means to you, as you do to him. As Bruce always says, 'Live it up' and together we plan to do just that. Love, Emma, Demi, Rumer, Scout, Tallulah, Mabel, & Evelyn."

March 31, 2022: Emma Heming Willis thanks fans for their support following Bruce Willis' aphasia diagnosis

Days after Willis' family announced on social media that he has been diagnosed with aphasia and is retiring from acting, his wife shared a message for family, friends and fans thanking them for sharing support as they rally around her.

"Your love, support, compassion, prayers really help," she wrote in a post on her Instagram Story. "I'm grateful. Thank you from the bottom of my heart."

April 6, 2022: Bruce Willis and Emma Heming Willis spend some time off the grid

In April, Heming Willis shared photos of the couple smiling at each other while sitting on a fallen tree trunk in the woods. "Mom & Dad in their favorite habitat 🏔🥾 #offthegrid," she captioned the carousel.

June 13, 2022: Emma Heming Willis calls Bruce Willis her "North Star"

In June, Heming Willis penned a sweet tribute to her husband alongside a video of him singing the Drifters' "Under the Boardwalk" with the Temptations.

"My motto is don't let the fear stop you. Why? Because fear constantly stops me 😂🙈 Which is another reason I fell for my husband, fear has never stopped him. I mean what kind of next level confidence does it take to sing lead with The Temptations?" Emma, 43, captioned the video.

"You can say what you want (and boy have they) but this guy has always been led by his passion and has never let naysayers stop him from, well, anything," she added. "And I have so much respect, love and admiration for that man because of it. Enjoy this little ditty that warms my heart ❤️."

Heming Willis also shared the video to her Instagram Story, writing underneath, "He's my North Star."

Aug. 15, 2022: Emma Heming Willis shares a video of Bruce Willis' "jam session"

Heming Willis shared a video on Instagram of Willis playing the harmonica alongside musician Derek Richard Thomas, who played the guitar and sang.

"Their talent is speaking for itself," Heming Willis captioned the post, adding. "I'll just leave this here. #jamsession."

Fans approved of the musical video, with one commenting, "music to our ears at any hour, day or year. Thank you for sharing ❤️🙌🏼," and another typing, "They Sound Great and Bruce is gettin down on the harmonica! Lovin it!!!🎶🎶🎶."

Sept. 6, 2022: Emma Heming Willis posts sultry images from W Magazine cover shoot with Bruce Willis in 2009

In 2009, Heming Willis and the Die Hard star graced the cover of W Magazine shortly after tying the knot. The cover lines read: "Mr. & Mrs. Willis: Newlyweds Bruce and Emma Willis show off their sizzling chemistry." In several of the photos, Willis is nude and Heming Willis appears as a sexy dominatrix dressed in all black.

Heming Willis posted the images on Instagram in honor of W Mag's 50th anniversary. "Usually we are a pretty wholesome couple till we aren't," wrote the model, adding a winky-face emoji. She posted additional behind-the-scenes pictures to her stories.

Sept. 6, 2022: Emma Heming Willis shares sweet photo of Bruce Willis snuggling with one of their daughters

Heming Willis gave a glimpse into life at home with Willis when she shared a black-and-white image of the Red star snuggling with one of their daughters. The photo, which was posted on her Instagram Story, showed Willis holding a onesie-clad little girl in his lap. It's unclear whether it was their daughter Mabel Ray or Evelyn Penn.

"Morning daddy snuggles," Heming Willis captioned the cute photo.

Nov. 11, 2022: Bruce Willis and Emma Heming Willis wish his ex-wife Demi Moore a happy 60th birthday

Heming Willis and the Red star celebrated Moore's birthday milestone with an Instagram Story post.

The couple posed with copies of Moore's 2019 memoir, Inside Out, and Heming Willis wrote a sweet message that said: "Happy birthday @demimoore. We love you inside and out."

Feb. 16, 2023: Emma Heming Willis gives an update on Bruce Willis' health

In an Instagram post shared on Feb. 16, Heming Willis gave an update on her husband's health, revealing that the actor's condition has worsened since the family first revealed his aphasia diagnosis.

"Our family wanted to start by expressing our deepest gratitude for the incredible outpouring of love, support and wonderful stories we have all received since sharing Bruce's original diagnosis," Emma wrote. "In the spirit of that, we wanted to give you an update about our beloved husband, father and friend since we now have a deeper understanding of what he is experiencing."

"Since we announced Bruce's diagnosis of aphasia in spring 2022, Bruce's condition has progressed and we now have a more specific diagnosis: frontotemporal dementia (known as FTD)," she continued. "Unfortunately, challenges with communication are just one symptom of the disease Bruce faces. While this is painful, it is a relief to finally have a clear diagnosis."

She continued, "Bruce always believed in using his voice in the world to help others, and to raise awareness about important issues both publicly and privately," she said. "We know in our hearts that – if he could today — he would want to respond by bringing global attention and a connectedness with those who are also dealing with this debilitating disease and how it impacts so many individuals and their families."

Feb. 27, 2023: Emma Heming Willis shares she's working with a dementia specialist

Heming Willis shared a photo on Instagram of her smiling with dementia care and education specialist, Teepa Snow. In the caption, she shared that she's receiving help after her husband's diagnosis.

"I'm grateful I had the opportunity to work with @teepasnows_pac who has helped me add to my dementia care toolbox," she wrote. "She's a loving, compassionate and skilled leader in this space who navigates herself with pure empathy. She's a gift."

The specialist responded to Heming Willis' post, praising her support. "@emmahemingwillis has done an absolutely remarkable job of providing the right support for Bruce as his abilities have changed and created a place, space and life that continues to provide him with what he needs to live well," Snow wrote.

March 6, 2023: Emma Heming Willis says Bruce Willis' "quality of life" is most important following dementia diagnosis

After Willis was followed by paparazzi in Los Angeles, Heming Willis posted a video on Instagram asking the media to "give him space" and refrain from "yelling and asking how he's doing."

"Just to be clear, I'm not trying to go head-to-head with the media because I will lose, I'm very clear about that," the entrepreneur said in a second video. "But I just want my husband to be able to participate in his life to the fullest. That's it."

In the caption, Heming Willis added: "I don't expect this to make any difference because I understand the food chain here but my husband's quality of life is of utmost importance to me."

March 19, 2023: Emma Heming Willis says she feels "sadness" and "grief" on Bruce Willis' 68th birthday

On her Instagram Story, Heming Willis shared that she woke up feeling sad on her husband's birthday.

"I have started the morning by crying as you can see by my swollen eyes and snotty nose," she said. "I just think it's important that you see all sides of this. I do have times of sadness, every day, grief every day, and I'm really feeling it today on his birthday."

Later that day, the mom-of-two posted an Instagram Reel that paid tribute to Willis.

"He is pure love. He is so loved. And I'll be loving him always. Happy Birthday my sweet 💌 My birthday wish for Bruce is that you continue to keep him in your prayers and highest vibrations because his sensitive Pisces soul will feel it 🙏🏽 Thank you so much for loving and caring for him too," Heming Willis captioned the video.

March 21, 2023: Bruce Willis and Emma Heming Willis celebrate 14 years of marriage

Heming Willis marked the special day with two posts on Instagram. In the first post, she talked about a friend's random "act of kindness" that involved a sweet note and a flower delivery.

"It got me thinking about how hard these types of 'special occasions' can be on caregivers. When usually our person would acknowledge the event, now their changing brains just can't. And that is what it is," Heming Willis wrote.

The mom-of-two then shared footage from the couple's vow renewal on their 10th anniversary.

"On our 10th wedding anniversary we decided to renew our vows in the same place we said 'I do' back in 2009. I'm so happy we did," Heming Willis captioned the video. "Seize every opportunity to unite and celebrate with family and friends. Those are the moments and beautiful pockets of memories that you get to hold on to for a lifetime. And we get to keep those memories safe and alive for the ones that might not be able to."

May 2023: Emma Heming Willis introduces her brain health brand amid Bruce Willis' dementia diagnosis

Heming Willis launched her brand, Make Time Wellness, which includes drink powders and gummy vitamins to support brain health.

While talking to PEOPLE about the products, Heming Willis said that this brand is especially close to her heart after her husband's diagnosis with dementia.

"For me, it's really about connecting to a community and being open and able to talk about dementia and to take away that stigma that there is no shame around it," she explained. "I'm learning through the process."

"It's like a fire's been lit. It's my new purpose and here I am," Heming Willis added. "I hate that it's me. I wish it wasn't, but you know what? I'm not going to be quiet. I am going to use my voice and through action, awareness and conversation, that creates change."

March 19, 2024: Emma Heming Willis celebrates Bruce Willis' 69th birthday

In honor of Willis' birthday, Heming Willis penned a sweet post on Instagram about her husband.