For 2.2" to 3.8" Wide Smartphones

Lavalier Microphone System with Bodypack

3-Level Light Ring with 36 LEDs

Telephoto, Fish Eye & Wide-Angle Lenses

Made for the mobile filmmaker/video producer, the SmartCine All-in-One Smartphone Video Kit from Movo Photo includes a host of imaging and audio accessories to help you achieve professional-quality results. The kit features a single-handed grip with built-in smartphone mount and wrist strap, an adjustable 36-LED light ring with built-in lens mount, a wireless lavalier microphone system, and a trio of camera lenses. The smartphone mount can accommodate any phone brand from 2.2" to 3.8" wide, and the built-in rechargeable battery provides up to 150 hours of wireless audio recording, and up to 6 hours of combined LED light & microphone recording.

Wireless Microphone System The lavalier microphone system consists of a receiver built into the top of the LED light ring, a remote bodypack transmitter, a clip-on lavalier mic, and 5 windscreens to reduce noise. The mic is designed to let the host/subject of the video move freely while still capturing clear audio from up to 160' away. To ensure audio fidelity during filming, a built-in headphone jack in the receiver lets the camera operator monitor the incoming audio. LED Light Ring & Lens Mount Packed with 36 bright LED lights, the light ring is designed to eliminate shadows and properly light your host and/or subjects. The light has three different levels of illumination in order to accommodate a variety of scenarios. Conveniently positioned in the center of the light is the mount for the three included lenses. 3 Lenses Included Quickly change the look of your footage by utilizing any of the three included lenses. Simply attach them to the center of the LED light ring, which rests over your phone's built-in camera. The SmartCine kit includes three all-glass lenses: a telephoto lens for up to 12x magnification, a fish eye lens for a 180° field of view, and a wide-angle lens for up to 0.65x magnification and a wider field of view. Please note that the telephoto lens may have difficulty focusing on newer multi-camera smartphones. The included rubber eyepiece lets you use the telephoto lens as a stand-alone monocular. Additional Features Built-in wrist strap

Built-in tripod mount on the bottom of the grip

Mic input on microphone receiver

Adjustable clamp knob

Carrying case included UPC: 817711021749

Inputs Microphone

3.5mm Headphone LEDs 36 White Lumens 46 Lenses Telephoto

Fisheye

Wide Angle Magnification Telephoto: Up to 12x

Wide Angle: Up to 0.65x Field of View Fisheye: 180° Smartphone Compatability Width: 2.2 to 3.8" / 5.6 to 9.7 cm Audio Range 160.0' / 48.8 m Transducer Condenser Polar Pattern Omnidirectional Microphone Frequency Response 35 to 14,000 Hz Signal to Noise Ratio 84 dB Power Supply Lithium-Ion Battery Life Microphone Only: Up to 150 Hours

LED Light & Microphone: Up to 6 Hours

Package Weight 2.165 lb Box Dimensions (LxWxH) 12.2 x 8.7 x 2.8"

All product and company names are trademarks™ or registered® trademarks of their respective holders. Use of them does not imply any affiliation with or endorsement by them.