Say what you want about Dalvin Cook as a Clemson fan; he’s one of the best running backs the ACC has ever seen.

Cook was a nightmare in his time with the Florida State Seminoles, putting up some truly ridiculous statistics when considering his situation. Cook, playing with poor quarterback play and behind some of the worst offensive lines the Seminoles have had, didn’t care and proved to be electric.

In three seasons at Florida State, Cook ran for 4,464 rushing yards and 46 rushing touchdowns, with 79 catches for 935 yards and two touchdowns through the air. There were few in the game at the time as exciting to watch as the FSU star running back, and I’m sure, even when he was tearing Clemson up (something Tigers fans likely remember well), it was difficult to not appreciate.

What flies under the radar when talking about Cook and Clemson is how major of a what if the program and the player are together. Cook was originally committed to Clemson in the Tigers’ 2014 recruiting class, later flipping to Florida and ending up with Florida State when it was all said and done. According to Fox Sports, it’s one of the 10 biggest recruiting flips of the last decade.

Cook was an all-time great… but did he make a mistake flipping from Clemson? If you care about National Championship wins, then absolutely.

This is an all-time college football what if. Former Clemson starting running back Wayne Gallman was a beast in his own right and had some fantastic moments in a Tigers’ uniform. His three years at Clemson with 3,429 rushing yards on 676 carries, with 34 touchdowns is nothing to downplay; Gallman was a baller.

Like every sport and pretty much everything in life, there are levels to these things, and Cook is one of the best the ACC has ever seen—a Travis Etienne-level talent. Imaging that in Clemson’s offense at the time is a scary thing.

It’s tough to say Cook made a mistake because I’m sure he likely would if he could do it all over again. He just happened to help develop one of college football’s biggest what-ifs.