Dalvin Cook continues to add on to a remarkable senior season. The Miami Central Rocket repeated as State Champion, was named 1st Team All-American by many national services, and now has added another title to his great senior year: the coveted Florida Mr. Football.

Dalvin Cook after leading Miami Central to back-to-back 6A State Championships. Cook had 223 yards rushing and 4TDs.

Miami Central RB Dalvin Cook was named Mr. Football by the Florida Dairy Farmers. The honor is awarded annually by Dairy Farmers, Inc. and the Florida Athletic Coaches Association.

Cook is now in the likes of others who have garnered the title of Florida's Mr. Football: Pahokee ATH Anquan Boldin, Nease QB Timmy Tebow, Dwyer S Matt Elam, Norland RB Duke Johnson, among other greats in Florida's high school football lore.

Cook shared time with another All-American tailback, Joseph Yearby, forming the nation's best backfield; Arguably Miami-Dade's best backfield duo in history (Davis brothers might have to disagree). Yearby rushed for 1700 yards before being injured in the Palm Bay heritage game, 2 games before the State title. Still, Cook rushed for 60 yards shy of 2,000 yards.

Cook led Miami Central RB to back-to-back 6A State Championships. Central thundered over Seffner Armwood 52-7 in the 6A State Final, with Cook leading the way with a monstrous 223 yards and 4 TDs. Cook ended his senior campaign with 1940 yards rushing on 177 carries, a whopping 11.7 yards per carry average. He also lead Miami-Dade County with 34 Touchdowns.

Dalvin Cook finally settled in with his collegiate choice by joining the Florida State Seminoles. Cook follows in the steps of another state champion winning Miami Central alum, Florida State running back Devonta Freeman. Freeman helped lead the 2013 FSU Seminoles to a undefeated season and National Championship, breaking 1000 yards rushing for the season, the first time since Warrick Dunn did it back in 1996.

Look for Dalvin Cook to big do big things in the next few years.

Here's a video of Dalvin on a 80 yard dart for a TD in the 2013 6A State Championship.

TAGS FOR THIS ARTICLE

Uncategorized Dalvin Cook Florida Dairy Farmer's Mr. Football