Good crowd management begins with accurate and timely information on the crowd. See how the Police kept large crowds safe at the Marina Bay Singapore Countdown 2022!

By: Christabelle Lim

It’s the last day of 2022, a Saturday night and Singapore’s first large-scale New Year’s Eve countdown since the COVID-19 pandemic started. The MRT trains that rolled into Bayfront Station brought wave after wave of families and friends to the Marina Bay area. The waterfront was buzzing!

Heard of Crowd@MarinaBay?

For those eager to catch the fireworks but worried about the crowds, there was a valuable resource at hand. Crowd@MarinaBay is a live map that allows users to see how heavy the crowds are at different points around Marina Bay, and which areas are closed. Users at the Countdown were able to access the map via mobile devices.

How Crowd@Marina Bay Works

Before the Countdown, the Singapore Police Force (SPF) had publicised the map via its social media platforms as well as through media reports. On the ground at Marina Bay, signs displaying the QR code for Crowd@MarinaBay were also prominently displayed, allowing members of the public to stay informed.

Crowd@MarinaBay provides the following information in real time to help members of the public: how crowded an area is and which areas are closed; where security checks are being conducted; and where the recommended walking routes are to avoid closed areas.

Vigilance at the Command Post

Using real-time data for sense-making, officers in the Command Post had to be proactive and decisive in keeping the crowds safe – from monitoring developments on the ground to maintaining close contact with ground patrol officers, auxiliary police partners and event organisers. When the crowd numbers surged as midnight approached, the Police closed access to areas around Marina Bay once they’d reached the safe thresholds.

A Bird’s-eye View

Crowd@Marina Bay was just one of the tech tools that the SPF employed at the Countdown to ensure public safety. Keeping a watchful eye on the safety of the crowd were SPF drones equipped with cameras and thermal sensors to provide important information regarding crowd size, flow and density.

At the designated launch point, SPF drone pilots reviewed footage from the drones to ensure that all was well. Aside from sensors, the drones are also equipped with speakers to assist Police with crowd control by broadcasting public safety messages, such as instructions during an emergency.

Enhanced Cameras

Also making an appearance at the Countdown was the Enhanced Mobicam, which incorporates crowd-management features with static Police Cameras. It was deployed at areas where large crowds were expected. With its blinkers, speakers and electronic signage, the Enhanced Mobicam enables the Police to issue audio and visual advisories to the crowd when necessary.

Safeguarding Every Day, Every Night

It’s the first hour of 2023. The fireworks were as fantastic as everyone expected, and as the crowd made its way to the MRT stations around the waterfront area, Police officers on the ground helped those in need, provided directions and managed the flow of people towards the MRT stations.

By 1.40am, all the areas around Marina Bay had been re-opened. The crowd had safely dispersed. For our officers, it was new year, same mission – to safeguard Singapore every day, and every night.