Singapore’s Gardens by the Bay is a green paradise with exotic plant species that invites visitors from around the globe.

Gardens by the Bay can be easily accessed through various modes of transportation, including subways.

Thousands of visitors travel via subway daily to reach the lush Gardens by the Bay.

This article covers everything you need to know about the MRT stations to reach Gardens by the Bay.

Nearest MRT stations to Gardens by the Bay

Gardens by the Bay is surrounded by three vital MRT stations, of which Bayfront MRT and Gardens by the Bay MRT are practically part of the Gardens’ entrances.

Tanjong Pagar MRT station is the third nearest MRT to Gardens by the Bay, situated at Maxwell Road.

Details about the three main MRT stations located near the Gardens by the Bay are as follows:

Gardens by the Bay MRT Station (TE22)

Gardens by the Bay MRT Station is a vital stop along Singapore’s Thomson-East Coast Line.

This underground stop at Marina Mall is conveniently located near Marina Gardens Drive.

Gardens by the Bay MRT Station is a vital link to reach landmarks like Gardens by the Bay and Marina Barrage.

This station is located between the now-closed Marina South and Founder’s Memorial Stations, which provides easy access to the Gardens.

Exits at Gardens by the Bay MRT station lead to nearby attractions like Satay by the Bay and Marina Mall, which offer leisure, entertainment, and shopping options.

Arrive at this MRT station if you are visiting the Flower Dome and Cloud Forest at Gardens by the Bay.

Bayfront MRT Station (CE1/DT16)

Bayfront MRT Station (CE1/DT16) functions as an important underground interchange for Singapore’s Downtown Line (DTL) and Circle Line (CCL).

Located beneath Bayfront Avenue in the Downtown Core, it provides direct access to major attractions such as Marina Bay Sands and Gardens by the Bay in Singapore.

The station has five entrances, including Exit B, which connects to the Marina Bay Sands Hotel and Gardens by the Bay through an underpass.

The route from Bayfront MRT to Gardens by the Bay is very scenic and pleasant with the Dragonfly and Meadow bridges.

Other landmarks surrounding the station include Merlion Park, Red Dot Design Museum, Helix Bridge, and The Fullerton Hotel.

Arrive at this MRT station if you are visiting the Floral Fantasy at Gardens by the Bay.

Tanjong Pagar MRT Station (EW15)

Tanjong Pagar MRT station is another main underground (MRT) station near Gardens by the Bay.

It is on the East-West MRT line and is situated along Maxwell Road.

Tanjong Pagar Station is integrated into the Guoco Tower development and provides seamless connectivity.

With seven exits connected by a vast underpass network, the station offers easy access to the surrounding innovations and amenities.

The AXA Tower, The URA Centre, the Al-Abrar Mosque, Tanjong Pagar Complex, Telok Ayer Park, and the International Plaza are prominent landmarks near the station.

Purchase the Gardens by the Bay entry ticket before arriving at this MRT to visit all the stunning attractions with the gardens.

These are the nearest MRT stations to Gardens by the Bay in Singapore.

How to reach Gardens by the Bay from nearest MRT stations

The Gardens by the Bay is located in the Marina Gardens, a short distance from The Marina Bay Sands Hotel.

Address: 18 Marina Gardens Dr, Singapore 018953. Get Directions

You can reach the attraction by taking public transport or a private vehicle.

Follow the instructions below to reach Gardens by the Bay by subway.

From Gardens by the Bay MRT Station (TE22)

Gardens by the Bay MRT station(TE22) at Marina Mall is just a minute’s walk away from the south side of the attraction.

Take Exit 1 leading to Satay by the Bay to reach the Gardens by the Bay attractions.

From Bayfront MRT Station (CE1/DT16)

Bayfront MRT Station (CE1/DT16) is an 11-minute walk away from the Bayfront side of the attraction.

Take Exit B and cross either Dragonfly or Meadow Bridge to reach Gardens by the Bay.

From Tanjong Pagar MRT Station (EW15)

Tanjong Pagar MRT Station (EW15) is a 7-minute drive from Gardens by the Bay.

Take Exit C, reach the bus stop no. 03223 at International Plaza, hop onto bus 400, and then alight at bus stop no. 03371 near Gardens by the Bay.

Book the Gardens By the Bay with a One-Way Transfer ticket for easy transportation from your hotel to the gardens.

Attractions near the MRT stations

Attractions closer to Gardens by the Bay MRT Station

Cloud Forest

The Cloud Forest at Gardens by the Bay is an amazing indoor garden, about the size of a 1.5 soccer field.

It’s designed to feel like a mountain forest that touches the clouds, with cool temperatures between 23°C and 25°C and high humidity.

The Gardens by the Bay Cloud Forest features a 35-meter-tall indoor waterfall, one of the tallest in the world, inviting many visitors, in particular.

On the high paths, you’ll see exotic plants, including insect-eating plants like Venus Flytraps and pitcher plants, as well as a beautiful mix of ferns and mosses.

Flower Dome

The Gardens by the Bay Flower Dome is a breathtaking, Guinness-record architectural structure with nature’s wonders.

It has a vast interior volume equivalent to 75 Olympic-sized swimming pools.

The Flower Dome is a facade made of 3,332 glass panels and provides a controlled environment with temperatures between 23°C and 25°C.

Visitors can wander through various themed gardens within the Dome, such as the Succulent Garden, the Mediterranean Garden, Olive Grove, and more.

Far East Organization Children’s Garden

The Gardens by the Bay Children’s Gardens offer an immersive experience for children under 12 years.

This interactive playground fuses nature’s wonders with innovative design, providing a space for play, learning, and boundless imagination.

It’s a family-friendly destination promising joy and adventure with dedicated zones for toddlers and pre-teens.

The Amphitheatre present here hosts performances and workshops, providing a creative space for children to engage with the community amidst lush surroundings.

Attractions closer to Bayfront MRT Station

Floral Fantasy

Floral Fantasy is one of the most fascinating Gardens by the Bay attractions, spanning over 1,500 square meters.

Visitors can wander through the four themed segments and enjoy watching at a fantasy theatre featuring a 4D ride named “Flight of the Dragonfly.”

Above, the ceiling is adorned with over 15,000 flowers, including fresh, dried, and preserved blooms.

This combination of floral design and interactive entertainment makes Floral Fantasy a must-visit destination of Gardens by the Bay attractions.

Supertree Observatory

The Supertree Observatory at Gardens by the Bay is at the top of the tallest tree and offers amazing views.

From this vantage point, you can enjoy a 360-degree panoramic view of the surrounding gardens, Marina Bay, and Singapore’s beautiful skyline.

The observatory has telescopes that allow an up-close view of specific landmarks and natural features.

Supertree Grove

Supertree Grove is a collection of 18 man-made trees, ranging between 25 and 50 meters tall, that dominates the skyline of Gardens by the Bay.

The Supertrees are planted with over 162,900 plants from various species and varieties of tropical flowering climbers, bromeliads, orchids, and ferns.

These Supertrees have 68 independent audio speakers and thousands of twinkling lights for the Garden Rhapsody.

The two highlights of Supertree Grove are the OCBC Skyway and the Supertree Observatory.

Bayfront Plaza

The Bayfront Plaza at Gardens by the Bay is a scenic spot offering picturesque views of Marina Bay Sands.

Lush greenery and modern architecture are ideal for leisurely strolls and relaxation.

Visitors can enjoy waterfront dining options, picturesque photo opportunities, and occasional events and performances.

OCBC Skyway

Perched 22 meters above the lush landscapes, the OCBC Skyway at Gardens by the Bay stretches 128 meters, connecting the colossal Supertrees.

This aerial walkway offers visitors a 360-degree view of the spectacular Marina Bay area and the vibrant plant life below.

The OCBC Skyway and Supertree Observatory are prime spots for witnessing the Garden Rhapsody, the Gardens by the Bay light show, which occurs twice daily at 7.45 pm and 8.45 pm.

Amenities at the MRT Stations

Common MRT station facilities include

Retail stores

ATMs

Bike racks

Public restrooms

Top-up kiosks

These amenities make the station premises accessible and user-friendly for local commuters and tourists.

These are the MRT stations to Gardens by the Bay and the nearby attractions.

Opt for this Singapore CityPass to explore beyond Gardens by the Bay and visit more than 50 attractions while saving time and money.

Was this article helpful to you? Comment below and let us know.