The National Day Parade (NDP) 2023 will be held at the Padang on Wednesday, 9 August 2023.

Safety Security Arrangements

To ensure safety and security at the event, members of the public attending the NDP 2023 are advised to arrive early to allow ample time for security checks on persons and belongings. The public is advised to minimise the number of personal belongings brought into the venue to facilitate quick security clearance.

Any container (100ml capacity or larger) containing liquid, aerosol or gel, will be subjected to additional checks. Canned drinks and canned items will not be allowed into the venue. Each ticket holder will receive an NDP Pack which includes sustenance items such as water and light snacks. Actions may be taken against anyone who attempts to bring in prohibited items as listed in Annex A.

To prevent overcrowding, police officers and auxiliary police officers will be regulating the flow of crowd at areas in the Marina Bay such as the Esplanade Waterfront, One Fullerton Waterfront, Merlion Park, The Promontory and Marina Bay Sands Waterfront. Members of the public are advised to follow the instructions of the marshals and police officers on duty.

Members of the public intending to visit Marina Bay should check out the Crowd@MarinaBay map found on https://go.gov.sg/crowd-at-marina-bay, or by scanning the QR code, to view real-time crowd levels and areas which may be closed at the various fireworks viewing spots. The map will also include available surface and underground walking paths around Marina Bay, which the public can use to navigate and avoid crowded areas. In addition, the Crowd@MarinaBay map will also be displayed on TV screens at selected MRT stations. Public can access the Crowd@MarinaBay map via their computers and mobile devices on 9 August 2023, from 1.30pm to 10.00pm.

In addition, certain entrances/exits of MRT stations around the Marina Bay will be closed to regulate crowd flow. In the event of overcrowding, trains may bypass affected stations such as Bayfront MRT station, to divert crowd away from these crowded areas. Members of the public are advised to be patient and to follow the instructions of the marshals and police officers on duty.

With large crowds expected around the Marina Bay, the public is advised to be vigilant and to safeguard their belongings.

Traffic Arrangements

To facilitate the event, the following roads and lanes will be closed to vehicular traffic during the stipulated periods:

Coleman Lane (between Coleman Street and lamp post 3F) would be converted to a two-way road on Wednesday, 9 August 2023, from 1.00pm to 3.00pm and 6.30pm to 8.00pm.

During the closures, access will only be granted to authorised vehicles as well as police and emergency vehicles. Auxiliary police officers and Singapore Armed Forces marshals will be deployed at the affected junctions to assist and direct motorists.

Traffic delays are expected along Beach Road, Bras Basah Road, Collyer Quay, Guillemard Road, Hill Street, Mountbatten Road, North Bridge Road, Raffles Avenue, Raffles Boulevard, Republic Boulevard, Temasek Avenue, Temasek Boulevard and Victoria Street. Motorists are to plan their routes early and avoid these roads. Members of the public travelling to these affected areas are also strongly encouraged to use public transport.

Similarly, motorists proceeding to Suntec City and Marina Square from Bras Basah Road, Esplanade Drive or Nicoll Highway are advised to use alternate routes via Bayfront Avenue or Rochor Road leading to Temasek Boulevard.

Parking restrictions along the affected roads will be strictly enforced. Vehicles found parked illegally or causing obstruction will be towed.

Post-Event Dispersal

After the Parade has ended, dispersal is likely to be slow due to the large crowds expected around the Padang and in the Marina Bay vicinity. Members of the public are advised to be patient and to follow the directions of the SAF marshals and the Police.

As City Hall MRT station, Raffles Place MRT station and Bayfront MRT station are expected to be very crowded during dispersal, members of the public are advised to use alternative stations such as Esplanade MRT station, Promenade MRT station, Downtown MRT station and Marina Bay MRT station.

Members of the public may contact the organiser at 1800-637-2023 for further enquiries.

Annex A List of Prohibited Items