Auditor

Incumbent: Troy Kelley

Candidates

Pat McCarthy

Age: 66

Party: Democratic

Background: Pierce County executive; Pierce County auditor; Tacoma School Board; chairwoman, Sound Transit board of directors; president, Puget Sound Regional Council.

Mark Miloscia

Age: 58

Party: Republican

Background: State senator, state representative, Air Force contract manager, quality examiner, Tacoma Goodwill director, substitute teacher

Q: Briefly explain why you are running for office.

McCarthy: I have a strong desire to restore confidence in the State Auditor's Office. I have the professional management skills and abilities to run the office well, and I have a hands-on understanding of the local governments the office is charged with auditing. I have interfaced with the State Auditor's Office for many years in different elected capacities, as a School Board Director, County Auditor, County Executive, and in my service on the public boards and organizations.

I believe in public service and have dedicated myself and my life's work to service of all kinds. No matter the time, place, or role, I have made accountability, transparency and integrity hallmarks of my public stewardship. I would do the same as State Auditor.

Miloscia: I'm running for State Auditor because I want to continue to be a champion for accountability, efficient and effective government, and justice for those in need. I have been leading the efforts government efficiency and accountability my entire career. People are clamoring for efficient, effective, and ethical government — which I have been pushing for since my days auditing Boeing contracts in the Air Force. After the last four years of the dark cloud hovering over our State Auditor's office, we need someone ready on day one to reform state and local governments so that they work for all Washingtonians. I am that candidate.

Q: How does your experience make you more qualified for this position than your opponent?

McCarthy: The next State Auditor needs to have demonstrated an ability to lead and manage a large government organization. I have a proven track record in leading a large government entity, Pierce County, the second largest County in the State of Washington, through the largest recession in recent history. I managed through that recession and resized our operation consistent with the resources we had to keep the county fiscally stable. I bring those skills and ability to lead the State Auditor's office.

The public wants and needs to rely on those of us who lead organizations to do our jobs, to ensure fiscal responsibility with their tax dollars. You rebuild the public's trust in stewardship of the office through good communication. I would meet with the various stakeholders and listen to the concerns or strengths they perceive about this office. I would listen to the staff who currently run the office. I would listen to the public at large, holding town forums and digital meetings on changes they would like to see. I would then put together a plan on improving communication with the public and instituting changes where appropriate.

Miloscia: As the only audit professional in this race, I am the most qualified to reform and fix our broken State Auditor's office. Unlike my opponent, quality, performance, and rooting out waste are not new issues for me. In fact, I passed our first performance audit legislation with the help of former State Auditor Brian Sonntag. That is why I have the broadest support from Republicans, Democrats, Business, and Labor and would be honored to have your vote.

Q: What areas or departments of state government will you focus the resources of the auditor's office first upon election?

McCarthy: In addition to the restoration of public trust in the State Auditor's office, the creation of entirely new mechanisms to audit the McCleary reforms will be the heavy lift for the new State Auditor. Many people in state public policymaking have not even begun to consider the degree to which the new State Auditor will be tasked with auditing the reformation of basic education funding.

An additional opportunity for using the office of auditor in a progressive manner may be to create real audit mechanisms to test, track, and report on the efficacy of tax exemptions. Ultimately the State Auditor's office is an executive role and not one of lawmaking, but I will work closely with the State Legislature on policy changes that would improve the office's performance.

I also believe our state's whistleblower law deserves a close look by the State Legislature. I have had hands-on experience with this topic during my time as Pierce County Executive, overseeing two high profile whistleblower complaints against other, independently-elected county officials. What has been critically important in each case is ensuring a fair and thorough process for the investigation (or investigations, depending on the situation). Both the whistleblower and the accused need a fair and thorough hearing. Anonymity of the whistleblower must be maintained unless the whistleblower chooses to disclose. Retaliation is forbidden and should be monitored if necessary.

Miloscia: We are facing a crisis as homelessness and waste continues to rise. I will audit homelessness programs to insure we are not wasting money and truly helping those in need correctly.

We also have serious problems with our Department of Transportation, so I will be focusing on auditing DOT to root out the waste so that we don't have to ask people to pay more money to drive across the Tacoma Narrows Bridge or ride our ferries.

Lastly, we've all seen the headlines where foster kids are being placed in harms way, dangerous patients escaping from Western State Hospital, and people needing services are stuck waiting weeks for a response. We must do better, and that is why I will be auditing and helping our human services programs serve you, and all clients, better.

Coverage:

Different experiences provide contrast in auditor's race (Associated Press)