All products and services featured are independently chosen by editors. However, Billboard may receive a commission on orders placed through its retail links, and the retailer may receive certain auditable data for accounting purposes.

Ciara celebrated the 20th anniversary of her debut album, Goodies, during a stop with Missy Elliott’s Out of This World Tour in her hometown of Atlanta on Saturday (July 27).

More from Billboard

How to Get Tickets to Missy Elliott’s Out of This World Tour

Team USA Women's Gymnastics: How to Watch Simone Biles, Suni Lee & More at the Summer Olympics

'Descendants: The Rise of Red' Dolls Are Selling Out Online: Here's Where to Buy Brandy's Cinderella Doll, Chloe, Red & More

“I will forever cherish moments like this! 20th anniversary of the Goodies album celebration right here on stage, in my hometown of Atlanta! Grateful for each person that’s helped me along the way,” Ciara wrote on X on Sunday. “ATL is the city that made me. Thank you @jazzepha Phillana @johntalsr @DevyneStephens1 @SeanGarrettPen for being a part of this special moment! Forever grateful.”

Ciara is currently on the Out of This World Tour with Missy Elliott, Busta Rhymes and Timbaland.

During the Atlanta concert, CiCi was presented with album plaques by her Goodies collaborators, including producer Jazzy Pha and Grammy-award winning singer-songwriter, Johnta Austin.

Goodies was released on Sept. 28, 2004. The hit album, featuring “1, 2 Step,” “And I,” “Oh” and the lead single “Goodies,” sold over five million copies and debuted at No. 3 on the Billboard 200.

Missy also shared a message thanking fans after the Atlanta show. “I’m so humbly grateful every night y’all pack out da place!!! And I see yall showing out for @ciara @BustaRhymes @Timbaland supporting these legends warms my heart because they have been in the game 20 plus years & still STANDING.”

The Out of This World Tour, Elliott’s first-ever headlining tour, kicked off at Rogers Arena in Vancouver, Canada on July 4. The tour lands in Orlando, Florida on Tuesday (July 30) and Baltimore on Aug. 1.

Elliot will bring the tour to her home state of Virginia for a show at the Hampton Coliseum in Hampton, Va. on Friday, Aug. 2.

Check out Ciara’s commemorative post below:

Best of Billboard