Logroño

Logroño (Spanish pronunciation: [loˈɣɾoɲo]) is a city in northern Spain, on the Ebro River. It is the capital of the autonomous community of La Rioja, formerly known as La Rioja Province.

Viana, Spain

Viana is a town and municipality located in the province and autonomous community of Navarre, northern Spain. Cesare Borgia is buried there.

Santo Domingo de la Calzada

Santo Domingo de la Calzada is a municipality in La Rioja, Spain, situated on the banks of the Oja River. Its name refers to its founder, Dominic de la Calzada, who built a bridge, hospital, and hotel here for pilgrims on the Way of St. James.

Laguardia, Álava

Laguardia (Basque: Guardia) is a town and municipality located in the province of Álava, in the north of Spain.

Circuito de Navarra

Circuito de Navarra is a motorsport race track that opened in June 2010 near Los Arcos in the Navarre region of Northern Spain. It is a 3.933 km (2.444 mi) permanent road course that hosts the Superleague Formula series and the FIA GT1 World Champio…

Elciego

Elciego (Basque: Eltziego) is a town and municipality located at the southern end of the province of Álava, in the Basque Country, northern Spain.

Navarrete, La Rioja

Navarrete is a municipality of the autonomous community of La Rioja, Spain, with a population of 2,660 (as of January 2006) and an area of 28.49 km2. Named a conjunto histórico of Spain, Navarrete is located between Logroño and Nájera on the Way of …

Battle of Monte Laturce

The Battle of Monte Laturce, also known as the second Battle of Albelda, was a victory for the forces of Ordoño I of the Kingdom of Asturias and his ally García Íñiguez of Pamplona. They defeated the latter's uncle and former ally, the Banu Qasi lor…

Los Arcos

Los Arcos is a town and Spanish municipality, in the Chartered Community of Navarre, situated in the administrative division of Estella, in the region of East Estella and is 62km from the capital of the community, Pamplona.

Ezcaray

Ezcaray is a town and municipality in the Oja Valley in the La Rioja region of northern Spain.

Battle of Albelda (851)

The first Battle of Albelda took place near Albelda in 851 between the Muslim forces of Musa ibn Musa, chief of the Banu Qasi and governor of Tudela on behalf of the Emirate of Córdoba, and an army of the Franks and Gascons from France, probably all…