To the south of Navarra and next to the spectacular greenery of the Ribera plain, we find a monumental city where you can enjoy both good food and ingrained traditions, and the best contemporary art. By all and for all The next station is: Tudela

Historic Tudela

We start our visit to Tudela by reviewing the main monuments to see in this city, the second most important in Navarre and a treasure worth exploring.

Plaza de los Fueros: the city's main square, located in Tudela's old town. A must-see when in the city. Close by are the information and tourism office, the Clock House and the church of Santa María, constructed in the sixteenth century.

Cathedral of Santa María: For many, the city's most famous building. This temple features samples of different architectural styles, ranging from Romanesque to Baroque. Particularly important at Tudela cathedral are its three doors dating back to the thirteenth century.

Torre Monreal: This 9th-century building served as a watchtower over the city during the Muslim era. Today, the tower houses the first camera obscura in Navarre as well as an interpretation centre for the cultures that coexisted in this city.

Casa del Almirante: Palatial building worth particular note for its 16th-century Renaissance style. Located at the back of the town hall.

Tudela Jewish quarter: The history of Tudela is strongly linked to its Jewish past and this is one of its main neighbourhoods.

Famed for gastronomy

The name of this city is undoubtedly associated with its fertile plain: not in vain have the vegetables grown earned the fame they have. It is so important that several events are held in its honour.

In spring, the Fiestas de la Verdura pay tribute to the gastronomy of the river plain with countless activities: cooking workshops and tastings, but also exhibitions and cultural visits. And when the cold weather arrives, the Inverdura is a good opportunity to taste the winter vegetables from river plain at La Mejana on the menus that the city's restaurants offer at this time.

Although we can't talk about Tudela cuisine without reference to its tomate feo (ugly tomato: a delicious local variety). In this case, it is true that "beauty is on the inside", because this

tomato laden with imperfections has an unmistakable flavour that you simply must try at least once in a lifetime.

Festivities and traditions

If Tudela is rich in fabulous produce, it is no less so in memorable traditions. Its Bajada del Ángel attracts a good number of visitors every year who don't want to miss the representation of the biblical proclamation, starring a child dressed as an angel, in this case, who hangs in the air and crosses the Plaza Nueva until Our Lady arrives.

The Zipoteros (key character in the Tudela carnival) parade is also very well known. Both of these events are the perfect excuse to visit the city for an unforgettable day.

However, Tudela's main event is the festivity in honour of its patron. On 24th July every year,we hear the cry, "Tudelnos! ¡Viva Santa Ana y viva Tudela!” (People of Tudela! Long live Saint Anne and long live Tudela!) and the city bursts into shouts of joy and the feast begins. The bullfighting, the Gigantada (parade of giants), the Revoltosa dance and the big procession are the highlights of an unbeatable festivity.

The people of Tudela have managed to combine tradition and progress like no one else. In fact, the popular events we have mentioned coexist naturally with an important display of urban contemporary art: taking a stroll through the city admiring the spectacular murals by great artists is quite an experience. Each September, the Avant Garde Festival increases the portfolio of these outdoor works, which have made Tudela famous for urban murals.

Looking beyond Tudela

Navarre is a province worth exploring and there is no better way to do so than to use Tudela as a launchpad for discovering its best corners. Here are a few recommendations:

Bardenas Reales: This semi-desert park, perfect for hiking, is bound to leave you speechless. A veritable luxury for nature lovers.

Olite: Considered one of the most beautiful and authentic towns in Navarre and Spain as a whole, Olite dates back to mediaeval times and is home to the Royal Palace and cobbled streets. A veritable trip back in time!

How to get to Tudela by train

Considering a visit to Tudela? Hop on board one of our trains and enjoy this treasure in Navarre.

Discover all our routes and travel in the fastest, most comfortable and sustainable way.