What is Computational Finance & Risk Management?

Computational Finance and Risk Management is the application of advanced mathematical, statistical, and computational methods to solving quantitative finance problems. Students will investigate financial topics and explore the business world rationally, creatively, and critically, in a quantitative way.

Why study Computational Finance & Risk Management (CFRM)?

CFRM undergraduate programs are designed to provide students with a rigorous applied mathematical foundation and solid understanding of how mathematical models, and statistical and computational methods, are used in financial applications such as portfolio optimization, derivatives pricing, and risk management.

The BS in CFRM will jump start students’ knowledge and skills for a career in a variety of fields, or further academic study in Mathematical/Computational Finance or Financial Engineering, such as the MS-CFRM program. Be a leader in a society that exhibits increasing demands for competence in communication, computation, and quantitative analysis.

How do you major in CFRM?

Please visit our Admissions page for important details such as the application procedure and deadlines, admissions statistics, plus dates for upcoming info sessions!

Degree Requirements:

Minimum 69 credits:

Mathematics: MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126 (or MATH 134, MATH 135, MATH 136) (15 credits)

Computing: AMATH 301, CFRM 425 (7 credits)

Statistics for Finance: CFRM 410 (3 credits)

Applied Mathematics: AMATH 351, AMATH 352, AMATH 353 (9 credits)

Quantitative Finance: CFRM 405, CFRM 415, CFRM 420 (9 credits)

Electives (minimum 26 credits): CFRM 421, CFRM 422, CFRM 426, CFRM 430, CFRM 442, CFRM 450, AMATH 481, AMATH 482, AMATH 483

General Education requirements for College of Arts and Sciences students may be found here.

Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses applied to the major.

Additional information for prospective students

Scholarships & Financial Aid: students can find a number of financial aid opportunities through the Student Financial Aid Office. With the Husky Promise, the UW guarantees to cover the full cost of tuition and standard fees for qualified students who otherwise could not afford to attend.

Career Preparation: students will experience a broad curriculum to learn high level mathematics in preparation for dynamic careers in a variety of fields and to become leaders in a society that exhibits increasing demands for competence in communication, computation, and quantitative analysis.

Admissions: Incoming Freshmen, Transfers, International Students

Additional policies, useful links, and resources may be found here!

How do you meet with a departmental major advisor?

Contact an advisor