These villages have history dating back to the Roman and Saxon eras, with rich mining heritage too.

The Wyrley and Essington canal provided transport for coal and goods, and today is known for its pleasant walk.

Reminders of this former life still exist in old mining works around both villages.

According to the Great Wyrley Local History Society, however, the village was in existence when when the Romans made their way to Wales via the Watling Street – and it is thought they may have encamped by the Wash brook.

The Saxons came to Great Wyrley next and gave it the name ‘Wir leah’. In 1086, the village was referred to as ‘Wereleia’.

In 1642 during the Civil War, the village was split. To the south at Landywood, the Roundheads had set up their encampment at Broom Hill. It is believed in order to supply water for the troops, they dug a well - and this is where Warwell Lane came in. The Loyalists, led by Colonel Leveson, made forays at the Roundheads, and a battle is thought to have been fought near Warwell Farm.

The busy Great Wyrley Local History Society has a full archive of information about colliery work and has published several books, available in Great Wyrley Library at Quinton Court.

It received National Lottery funding for a recent work investigating the impact of the Great War on local miners and others in the area.

As mining decreased, Great Wyrley village and its smaller sister Landywood developed along the A34 Cannock-Walsall Road and set their sights on other enterprises.

The Landywood Enterprise Park on Holly Lane offers 36 units to local businesses with South Staffordshire District Council on hand for advice and help.

Both villages are blessed with active local churches with Great Wyrley Methodist Church being a fine example of Victorian architecture and St Mark’s a well-preserved example of an early English church.

The Memorial Garden with its beautiful wrought iron gates is well worth a visit, affording peace and tranquillity.

The modern Quinton Court Shopping Centre provides well a supermarket, food outlets, hairdressers, community hall and health centre.

Both villages are known for their community spirit with Landywood Voluntary Help Centre on Walsall Road being a prime example.

Winners of the Queens Award for Volunteering, the group caters for less-mobile residents providing a volunteer car service for shopping and to health appointments. The minibus regularly takes people on outings and the shop provides quality used clothes and household items.