For Immediate Release:

EMERYVILLE, CA - March 2, 2006 - Backbone Entertainment announced today that it is now an officially licensed Universal Media Disc (UMDTM) authoring service provider, able to create a variety of video projects for the PSPTM (PlayStation® Portable) system. The new branch of Backbone's business adds to its already well-known reputation as one of the leading videogame developers in the country.

"The PSP has so many different entertainment capabilities to offer," says Mike Mika, studio head of Backbone's Emeryville location. "We're excited to continue to push the limits of the platform, not only in the games that we develop, but also in every other form of media available on the system."

Similar to DVD authoring, Backbone's service offers clients a wide array of interactive menu design and implementation options to maximize a user's video experience on the PSP. These range from designing and creating menus from scratch, to converting menus from an already-released DVD to UMD compliant form. And since the UMD format enables far more functionality than the DVD standard, the company's service can push the limits in terms of creativity and innovation in interaction and design.

Backbone's first announced projects in this field are Night Warriors DarkstalkersTM Revenge Alpha and Night Warriors DarkstalkersTM Revenge Omega, both developed for Capcom®. Based on Capcom's popular Darkstalkers videogame, both volumes will contain two, action packed, 40-minute anime episodes each, and are scheduled for release in March.

About Backbone Entertainment

Part of Foundation 9 Entertainment (www.F9E.com), the largest independent game developer in North America, Backbone specializes in developing original and licensed IP for all platforms and creating merchandising opportunities in diversified entertainment genres. Backbone is based in Emeryville, CA, and Vancouver, BC and can be found on the web at: www.backboneentertainment.com.

Backbone, along with The Collective, Pipeworks, ImaginEngine, and Digital Eclipse make up Foundation 9 Entertainment. The company's studios have developed more than 300 titles, including more than 40 in 2005 alone. Foundation 9 Entertainment employs more than 325 employees, and has offices in Los Angeles, Newport Beach, Emeryville, Vancouver, Boston, Eugene, and Honolulu. For more information on Foundation 9 Entertainment, please visit: www.F9E.com.

About Capcom

Capcom is a leading worldwide developer, publisher and distributor of interactive entertainment. Founded in 1983, the company has created world renowned franchises including Resident Evil, Street Fighter, Mega Man, Viewtiful Joe, Devil May Cry and the Onimusha series. Headquartered in Osaka, Japan, the company maintains operations in the U.S., United Kingdom, Germany, Tokyo and Hong Kong. More information about Capcom and its products can be found on the company's web site at www.capcom.com.

Contact:

Nicole Tanner

Foundation 9 Entertainment

nicolet@f9e.com

Arne Cual-Pedroso

Capcom Entertainment, Inc.

arnec@capcom.com