Chelsea Clinton is so 'difficult' and unpleasant to staff at the family charity she runs that there has been an unusually high turnover of staff at the Foundation, it has been claimed.

It's alleged that several senior staff members at the Bill, Hillary and Chelsea Clinton Foundation since she joined as vice-chairman in 2011.

'A lot of people left because she was there. A lot of people left because she didn’t want them there. She is very difficult,' sources told the New York Post's Page Six.

It's claimed that former CEO Bruce Lindsey was pushed upstairs to the position of chairman of the board two years ago, so that Chelsea could bring in Eric Braverman, a former colleague from consultancy company McKinsey and Company.

'He [Braverman] was her boy, but he tried to hire his own communications professional and actually tried to run the place. He didn’t understand that that wasn’t what he was supposed to be doing,' the source told Richard Johnson. 'He was pushed out.'

Another example of an outgoing senior staff member is Matt McKenna, who was Chelsea’s spokesman. Now he works for Uber.

Ginny Ehrlich, the founding CEO of the Clinton Health Matters Initiative, now works for the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, an organisation trying to improve public health.

Sources also claim that Chelsea is also enjoying all the trappings of a CEO, with a personal staff of five people. Her father, former president Bill Clinton, has just six, said the source.

The organization has now become so bloated that Page Six says some critics believe it should be the subject of a formal investigation.

It's alleged that her behavior may be a hangover from the time at former employers McKinsey and NBC News - where she was paid $600,000 a year.

A source said: 'If someone wanted to talk to Chelsea about something, they had to go through a producer.'

And to Bill Clinton loyalists who grew the foundation from nothing, the high turnover and ethical questions will fly in the face of what the foundation was set up to achieve.