Group 1 winner and influential sire Green Desert (Danzig–Foreign Courier, by Sir Ivor) has died at age 32. The G1 July Cup winner and sire of leading sires Cape Cross (Ire), Oasis Dream (GB) and Invincible Spirit (Ire) was euthanized at Shadwell's Nunnery Stud due to the infirmities of old age.

Shadwell Stud Director Richard Lancaster, who has had been associated with Green Desert since he was a yearling, said, “Although small in stature, Green Desert had a big personality and was hugely loved and revered by everyone at Shadwell. On behalf of all concerned with his management, I would firstly like to thank the stallion men who have looked after Green Desert throughout his time with us: Phil Vernon, Ron Lott and Bela Kristoff; their unwavering care for him and the excellent age he reached is a credit to them.”

“We also appreciate the support that Green Desert received throughout his time at stud from breeders across the world,” Lancaster added. “Although not owned by Shadwell, we have always thought of him as our flagship stallion and we are very proud to be a part of his legacy. It goes without saying that this is a very sad time for everyone connected with Green Desert and we hope that people will remember him as an excellent racehorse, a ground-breaking sire and a lasting influence on modern Thoroughbred racing and breeding.”

Bred in Kentucky by Eaton Farms and Red Bull Stable, Green Desert was purchased by Darley Stud Management for $650,000 at Keeneland September in 1984. He was the first foal out of his dam and is from the family of champion 2-year-old filly and G1 Arkansas Derby winner Althea (Alydar), as well as leading sire Arch (Kris S.) Campaigned by Sheikh Maktoum Al Maktoum and trained by Sir Michael Stoute, Green Desert won the G2 Flying Childers S. and G3 July S. as a juvenile, and went on to garner the G2 Vernons Sprint Cup and G1 July S. at three. Only the great Dancing Brave stood between Green Desert and another pair of important victories at three–the G1 2000 Guineas and G2 St. James's Palace S. Green Desert finished second to that eventual G1 Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe winner on both occasions. He was also third in the G1 William Hill Sprint Championship at three, and retired at the end of that season with five wins from 14 starts and $308,015 in prize money, having finished off-the-board just three times.

“Green Desert was a horse I loved training; he had a huge amount of vitality and personality,” said Stoute. “He was a good miler, for Dancing Brave was the only horse to beat him in the Guineas, but his exceptional speed meant he was able to win group races over six furlongs. He has left a great legacy, and one that I think will become larger and larger over time.”

As great as his accomplishments on the racetrack were, Green Desert's greatest legacy continues to grow through his progeny, most notably his clutch of successful sire sons. Green Desert sired 12 Group 1 winners–including Sheikh Albadou (GB), Oasis Dream, Tamarisk (Ire), Desert Prince (Ire), Desert Lord (GB), Cape Cross, Owington (GB), Invincible Spirit and Heat Haze (GB)–and over 90 stakes winners.

Through Cape Cross, Oasis Dream and Invincible Spirit alone, Green Desert is the paternal grandsire of recent Group 1 winners Arcano (Ire), Aqlaam (GB), Moonlight Cloud (GB), Ouija Board (GB) and Sea The Stars (Ire), and this year's standout 3-year-olds Muhaarar (GB) and Golden Horn (GB).

Green Desert has also established a strong legacy as a broodmare sire. His daughters have produced Group 1 winners like Was (Ire) (Galileo {Ire}); Lucky Nine (Ire) (Dubawi {Ire}); Bracelet (Ire) (Montjeu {Ire}); Christmas Kid (Lemon Drop Kid); Makfi (GB) (Dubawi {Ire}); Total Gallery (Ire) (Namid {GB}); Almutawakel (GB) (Machiavellian); and Lyric of Light (GB) (Street Cry {Ire}). Green Desert was pensioned from stud duties in 2011, and had lived out his life at Nunnery Stud.