Desert Crown, who memorably won the 2022 Derby, has been put down after failing to recover from a serious fetlock injury he sustained on gallops in Newmarket in August.

The four-year-old, who won three of his four starts, was trained by Sir Michael Stoute, owned by Saeed Suhail and bred by Strawberry Fields Stud. He picked up the injury while preparing for a tilt at winning the Group One Juddmonte International at York, but was believed to be on the road to recovery. But he was put down at Newmarket Equine Hospital (NEH) on Monday afternoon (23 October) after surgeons there concluded there was no more they could do to save him.

Saeed Suhail’s racing manager Bruce Raymond told the Racing Post: “Desert Crown was a great horse and was destined to be one of the best if he hadn’t had this injury. He was one of the easiest winners of the Derby I can remember, and it’s a great shame we’ve lost him.”

Mr Raymond said Desert Crown fractured his off fore and had 16 screws inserted, but although “everything seemed to be going well”, the injury put too much pressure on his near fore.

“He was put down humanely at NEH, where the surgeons have been outstanding,” he said.

Desert Crown, out of Green Desert mare Desert Berry and by Nathaniel, whose progeny include the great Enable, won his debut at Nottingham in November 2021, his sole start as a two-year-old, and impressed in a stylish Dante victory at York in May 2022. His last run was in the Brigadier Gerard at Sandown in May, where he finished second to Hukum. He won £1,031,201 in his four-race career, such was the quality of races he was competing in.

Desert Crown’s Derby victory was an impressive one – he was eased down to win by two and a half lengths under Richard Kingscote, for whom it was a first Derby triumph.

You may also be interested in…

Watch Derby favourite Desert Crown take his first steps as a foal

‘I was useless as a kid – today is a great day’: first Derby victory for British jockey and a poignant win for the trainer

Horse & Hound magazine, out every Thursday, is packed with all the latest news and reports, as well as interviews, specials, nostalgia, vet and training advice. Find how you can enjoy the magazine delivered to your door every week, plus options to upgrade your subscription to access our online service that brings you breaking news and reports as well as other benefits.

Stay in touch with all the news in the run-up to and throughout the Paris Games, Burghley, HOYS and more with a Horse & Hound subscription. Subscribe today for all you need to know ahead of these major events, plus online reports on the action as it happens from our expert team of reporters and in-depth analysis in our special commemorative magazines. Have a subscription already? Set up your unlimited website access now