The bust commemorates tennis player, Mark Woodforde who won four singles titles, including his hometown Adelaide tournament twice. His best result in a Grand Slam was reaching the semi-final of the Australian Open in 1996, his 38th Grand Slam singles tournament, which remains a record for the longest time taken to reach a maiden semi-final.

He enjoyed the greatest success of his career when playing men's doubles with Todd Woodbridge, ("The Woodies") combining his left-hand baseline play with Woodbridge's swift volleying reflexes at the net. They were the ATP Doubles Team of the Year four times, and all together "The Woodies" won 61 ATP doubles tournaments (Woodforde won 67 in his career).

He is best known for his doubles success, having won twelve Grand Slam doubles titles in his career – one French Open, two Australian Opens, three U.S. Opens and a record six Wimbledons. Eleven of these victories came as a member of "The Woodies" and he won the 1989 U.S. Open doubles with John McEnroe.

He also won five Grand Slam mixed doubles titles – one French Open, two Australian Opens, one U.S. Open, and one Wimbledon; thus making an overall total of 17 Grand Slam doubles titles. He reached the World No. 1 doubles ranking in November 1992.

Woodforde's other career highlights included a gold medal at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics and a silver medal at the 2000 Sydney Olympics.

Woodforde played for the Australian Davis Cup team in three Davis Cup finals, including teaming with Woodbridge to clinch the 1999 win over France in Paris to give Australia its first Davis Cup victory in 13 years.

Woodforde retired from professional tennis in 2000 after a Davis Cup final loss to Spain, and was appointed the coach of Australia's Fed Cup team in 2003

Location

Address:Olympic Boulevard & Batman Avenue, Garden Square, Melbourne Park, Melbourne, 3000State:VICArea:AUSGPS Coordinates:Lat: -37.820301

Long: 144.978865

Note: GPS Coordinates are approximate.

View Google Map

Details

Monument Type:SculptureMonument Theme:PeopleSub-Theme:SportArtist:Barbara McLean

Dedication

Approx. Monument Dedication Date:2010

Source: MA