Autonomous method to end poverty

King Vidor made OUR DAILY BREAD in 1934 with help from Charlie Chaplin of all people. It is about people working together on a farm without corporate interference. Despite a series of setbacks, their efforts are rewarded at the end.

OUR DAILY BREAD was not unique subject matter for Vidor. He examined labor issues in other movies such as AN AMERICAN ROMANCE, about an immigrant who becomes an industrialist; and in THE FOUNTAINHEAD, an adapted story from a bestselling novel by Ayn Rand.

Vidor presents individuals struggling to maintain a strong work ethic as well as their integrity in a financially-motivated world. In some measure, these films are autobiographical, because Vidor himself saw Hollywood as a commercial environment that tended to devalue the spirit of progressive efforts.

The two main characters in OUR DAILY BREAD are recycled from a silent film that Vidor previously directed. The husband and wife at the heart of this story already appeared in MGM’s classic THE CROWD in 1928. A drama about the struggles of a long-suffering couple in an unforgiving capitalistic society, it starred Vidor’s wife Eleanor Boardman alongside James Murray.

The characters of Mary and John Sims were so popular with the moviegoing public and so meaningful to the director that he decided to reuse them in OUR DAILY BREAD six years later. However, this “continuation” was an independent production released through United Artists. Vidor secured funding with the help of Chaplin, one of UA’s founders.

By 1934 Miss Boardman had divorced Vidor and basically retired from acting. Meanwhile, Murray did not transition well to sound and became an alcoholic. Vidor tried to help Murray pull himself together and hire him for this role, but Murray’s drinking led to his death. As a result, the main roles are taken by Karen Morley, an MGM contract player at this time; and Tom Keene, who’s more associated with B westerns.

Miss Morley would be blacklisted in the early 1950s because of her involvement with the communist party. Many actors and directors that were blacklisted in the late 1940s and early 1950s, were part of an intellectual movement that was determined to expose the unfairnesses of the American economic system.

Extreme financial and social conditions during the Depression had affected the way Americans were forced to live. Farmers, especially those that had lost everything in the Dust Bowl, were trying to make sense of a system that had betrayed them and let them down.

Some became transient, traveling the country in search of better opportunities. Their situation still resonates with us today, because many Americans still live at or below the poverty level. The recent Oscar winner for Best Picture, NOMADLAND (2020), illustrates this.

Parts of Vidor’s picture might seem dated today, but it is still a compelling drama with strong central performances. The scene near the end where a collective group of farm laborers develop an irrigation technique is quite memorable. Their work ethnic and community spirit helps them prevail…it helps them create their own autonomous method to blot out the poverty and bleakness they’ve been experiencing.