PRO FOOTBALL

Panthers' Peppers again states desire to leave

Julius Peppers was polite, insistent that he has no problems with his coaches and stressed that North Carolina always will be his home.

The four-time Pro Bowl defensive end just doesn't want to play for Carolina anymore -- and he hopes the Panthers grant the impending free agent his wish by not placing the franchise tag on him.

"If they decide to use the tag on me, the first thing that I'll be doing is requesting a trade," Peppers said Saturday. "Then anything after, basically I don't know what would be the course of action. We'll deal with that when that time comes."

In a conference call with reporters -- Peppers' first extended interview since his agent announced last month he wouldn't sign a long-term deal with the Panthers -- Peppers focused on his desire to leave coach John Fox's 4-3 defensive system to play outside linebacker in a 3-4 scheme.

Also: Pennsylvania state police say Pittsburgh Steelers kicker Jeff Reed threw a temper tantrum at a Sheetz convenience store in New Alexandria, Pa., a tiny borough 35 miles east of Pittsburgh, because its restroom didn't have any towels.

Police say the incident happened about 2:50 a.m. Saturday. Reed was cited for disorderly conduct and criminal mischief, summary offenses similar to traffic tickets.

Former NFL cornerback Curtis Deloatch was jailed Friday in Mecklenburg County, N.C., on a misdemeanor charge of assaulting a female.

TENNIS

Injury sidelines Serena in semis of Paris event

Top-ranked Serena Williams had to withdraw from the semifinals of the Open GDF Suez with a knee injury, allowing Elena Dementieva to advance to the final in Paris against Amelie Mauresmo.

Williams said she was in too much pain to play after hurting her right knee during Friday's win against Emilie Loit.

Mauresmo defeated Jelena Jankovic 6-2, 0-6, 6-1 to advance.

Also: Rafael Nadal beat Gael Monfils 6-4, 6-4, setting up a final against Andy Murray at the ABN Amro tournament in Rotterdam, Netherlands.

Murray, seeded second, routed two-time champion Mario Ancic, 6-1, 6-1.

Radek Stepanek ousted Andy Roddick from the SAP Open in San Jose, Calif., beating the top seed and defending champion 3-6, 7-6 (5), 6-4 in the semifinals.

In the final, the fourth-seeded Czech will face Mardy Fish, who beat James Blake 6-3, 6-2 in a match featuring two Americans.

MISCELLANEOUS

Wranglers' win streak ends against Ontario

The Wranglers had their eight-game winning streak snapped in a 2-1 overtime loss to the Ontario Reign in an ECHL game in Ontario, Calif.

Chris Ferraro scored for Las Vegas (26-18-5) to tie the score in the first period, and neither team scored again until Ontario's Tim Krauss netted the game winner 1:30 into overtime.

Also: Mike Green broke the NHL record for consecutive games with a goal by a defenseman, scoring on a second-period power play to help the Washington Capitals to a 5-1 road victory over Tampa Bay.

Green scored for the eighth straight game, breaking the record set by Boston's Mike O'Connell in 1983-84.

Four-time Vezina Trophy winner Martin Brodeur practiced with the New Jersey Devils for the first time since having elbow surgery in November, and the goaltender said he hopes to play in a game within 10 days.

Lindsey Vonn of the United States fell after deciding to compete in the slalom with an injured thumb, and Maria Riesch of Germany went on to win at the world championships in Val D'Isere, France.

Gil Morgan shot 7-under 65 and finished tied with Tom Jenkins after two rounds of the Champions Tour's Allianz Championship in Boca Raton, Fla.

Jenkins shot 67 for the second straight day, matching Morgan at 10-under 134 through 36 holes.

Lance Armstrong returned to competitive cycling in his native country with a smooth 10th-place finish in the prologue to the Tour of California in Sacramento.

The seven-time Tour de France winner finished the 2.4-mile course in 4 minutes, 37.17 seconds, 4.3 seconds off the pace set moments later by Switzerland's Fabian Cancellara.

The UNLV softball team (5-2) routed Saint Louis 18-3 in the Desert Classic at Eller Media Stadium.

Alyssia De La Torre had a grand slam for the second straight day and finished 2-for-3 with four RBIs, three runs scored and a walk.

The College of Southern Nevada softball team split with Salt Lake Community College, losing the opener 7-5, then winning 3-2 at Russell Road Recreation Complex.

CSN (7-6, 4-4 Scenic West Athletic Conference) lost to Salt Lake on Friday, 9-1 and 5-1.

Lightweight Nate Campbell won a split decision over Ali Funeka of South Africa at Sunrise, Fla., a day after losing his three title belts for failing to make weight. Campbell, 21/2 pounds over the limit of 135 Friday, dropped Funeka with a sweeping right hand late in the second round and another in the 11th.

Cristobal Cruz retained the IBF featherweight title, earning a close unanimous decision over Cyril Thomas in Saint-Quentin, France.