Sport: Tennis (1994-98)

Inducted: 2017

One of just two Longhorns to earn All-America honors in all four years of eligibility, Cristina Moros helped Texas to the 1995 NCAA team title and left her mark in the school record book. Moros qualified to compete in the NCAA singles and doubles draws all four years at Texas, and the Big 12 Conference later selected her to the league's 10th Anniversary Women's Tennis Team. She remains one of just two Longhorns to earn three or more doubles All-America honors. As a true freshman, Moros posted a .906 season doubles winning percentage that still ranks No. 3 all-time at Texas. She finished as the NCAA doubles runner-up and earned All-America honors alongside Kelly Pace after helping the Horns to their second NCAA team title. Incredibly, Moros reached the NCAA doubles finals for a second straight year as a sophomore with a new partner, Farley Taylor. Moros totaled 37 doubles wins as a sophomore, good for the No. 2 single-season mark at Texas. She was selected as the Team MVP after earning her second consecutive doubles All-America honor. As a junior, Moros shared the first Big 12 Conference Women's Tennis Player of the Year award with teammate Sandy Sureephong in 1997. Moros collected her first All-America honor in singles after helping the Horns reach the semifinals at the NCAA Championships. As a senior, Moros reached the NCAA doubles quarterfinals and joined Susan Gilchrist as the only Longhorns to earn three doubles All-America honors in her career and earn singles or doubles All-America honors in all four seasons of eligibility. Moros finished her career ranked No. 3 at UT in career doubles wins (107), No. 4 in career doubles winning percentage (.787) and No. 5 in career singles winning percentage (.750). Moros earned a bachelor's degree from UT in speech communications in 1999 and played professional tennis before entering the coaching ranks. She coached the likes of Maria Sharapova and Jelena Jankovic at the Bollettieri Tennis Academy (1999-2001) and was a co-founder of the Roddick-Moros International Tennis Academy in San Antonio. Moros served as a volunteer women's tennis coach at Texas (2009-11) before assuming an associate head coach position at Oklahoma (2012-14). She landed her first head coaching position at UTEP and served one season (2014-15) in El Paso before taking over the women's tennis program at South Florida in May of 2015.

Thanks for visiting !

The use of software that blocks ads hinders our ability to serve you the content you came here to enjoy.

We ask that you consider turning off your ad blocker so we can deliver you the best experience possible while you are here.

Thank you for your support!