In the heart of Jämtland’s only city

Östersund is a charming city located by Storsjön (a large lake) and is today the only city in Jämtland. At Clarion Hotel Grand Östersund, on Prästgatan 16, you can stay right in the heart of Östersund and close to all the important things. Östersund's alleys are bordered by small, cosy shops that will tempt you to shop for both local craft and utility items. Just outside the hotel's front doorstep you will find the Mittpunkten and Kärnan shopping centres, with sporting goods, groceries and clothing. From the centre it is only 15 minutes to Åre Östersund Airport. Östersund's crowning gem, sports and conference venue Hotel Frösö Park, is located right next to the airport and offers a wonderful view of the mountains.

Relaxation spa and energising exercise

At Clarion Hotel Grand Östersund you will be staying in warm and welcoming rooms. In addition, you have access to a relaxation area where you can take a swim in the pool or warm up in the lovely sauna. If you want to stay fit during your stay you will also find exercise machines adjacent to the pool. In addition, as a guest you can train for free 24 hours a day at Stargym, located 700 metres from the hotel entrance. At the reception you can borrow bicycles, kick-sleds and gåstavar (Nordic walking poles) – get out into the fresh air of Jämtland and recharge your batteries! At Hotel Frösö Park you can enjoy a brand new spa with a choice of indoor and outdoor pools and relaxation areas. Relax and unwind with a wonderful massage or cure treatment.

Interesting history and excitement filled excursions - Östersund has something for everyone

There are a lot of experiences in Östersund. Visit the Vinterparken, take a stroll on Storsjön’s ice or discover Storsjöbadet. The award-winning Jamtli county museum consists of an open-air museum with cultural-historical buildings and an indoor museum. As the first museum in Sweden, Jamtli began in 1984 working with live historical re-enactments when actors moved into the environments and went about their everyday lives as they used to be. To experience exciting animals, visit Frösö Zoo, near Hotel Frösö Park. In addition, there is the possibility to see moose on Moosegarden and to go on a bear safari.

Conferences, meetings and venues in Östersund

Do you want to know more about our conference and meeting rooms in Östersund? You can find what we have to offer here.

Nearby destinations

Åre

Read less