Silent Hill 2 is officially happening! Fans of the horror video game series have long since craved a sequel to the 2006 movie. Now, they're getting it.

The movie, titled Return to Silent Hill, has officially been confirmed and will be based on the video game sequel itself.

Director Christophe Gans, who directed the first film, is returning for the new game adaptation and spoke to game developer Konami about his plans for the movie in a six-minute video that displayed concept art for the picture.

"The film tells the story of a young guy coming back to Silent Hill, where he has known a great love and what he’s going to find is a pure nightmare," Gans said.

Related: Silent Hill 2 remake announced alongside game with Star Wars' JJ Abrams

"In the first Silent Hill, we were exploring a world. The world of this small town, completing closing into the mist. It was like being trapped in The Twilight Zone. But in the second game, the creator of the game have changed the rules.

"So we’re basically going back to Silent Hill, the same town, but we were looking at this strange world and tell the point of the view of the hero we were playing."

Gans continued: "It’s much more about psychological horror even if we are going to find again all the same creatures and the same terror sequence."

Gans said that the first film was a hit with fans of the Silent Hill video game because they felt that he was one of them – a fan. He went on to say that “everything starts with respect” for the source material of his film.

Related: Emma Thompson responds to Sean Bean's comments on intimacy co-ordinators

He said that one of his “major goals” for the upcoming movie is how to redesign the classic monster of Silent Hill – Pyramid Head. The creature will return in the sequel but fans will also see plenty of new things not seen in the original, which starred Sean Bean.

Producer Victor Hadida also told fans that the movie will feature a mixture of faithfulness to the spirit of the video games and a new modernness, which he said is needed since it's been 15 years since the previous film.

"There is a clear idea from Christophe to make it modern but also very true to the video game. We are also respecting the will of the authors, the producers, and Konami into this adaptation," Hadida explained.

"Christophe is really somebody that respects the work that has been done, but that also has his own vision."

Related: Spider-Man's Tom Holland reveals the next video game adaptation he wants to do

The original Silent Hill movie adapted the first video game but also loosely incorporated elements from the second, third and fourth Silent Hill video games.

It was poorly received by critics, earning a low 31% score on Rotten Tomatoes, but was a success with fans of the game series.