MIAMI -- Depicted as the devil, called a traitor and worse, Attorney General Janet Reno has taken the brunt of the blame from the Cuban-American community for her decision to use force to return Elian Gonzalez to his father.

Protesters and community leaders in Reno's hometown were offering up a bitter judgment against the nation's top law enforcement official after long supporting the former prosecutor who grew up here.She has become the No. 1 target for Cuban-Americans. Signs and angry words targeting her have multiplied following Saturday's raid to snatch Elian. Her actions -- President Clinton said the Elian case was handled by her -- have been criticized by the governor and Miami's mayor.

"There is a sense that this was personal ... that this person the community helped in her career would do something so outrageous," said Dario Moreno, a political science professor at Florida International University in Miami. "The raid on this family's house was symbolic of a raid on everybody's house."

The scene at the house was quiet on Easter Sunday, a day after protesters poured into the streets of Little Havana after federal agents grabbed the 6-year-old boy and took him to Washington, D.C.

More than 350 people were arrested and protesters started more than 200 fires, mostly burning tires and trash Saturday. As they marched, many carried signs with a picture of Reno with horns. Another called her a traitor, while others likened her to a Nazi.

One sign read: "Reno, you have betrayed our trust. Ten children in Waco and Elian condemned today," a reference to the deadly 1993 raid on the Branch Davidian compound in Texas. Reno and the FBI were criticized for their decisions to end a 51-day siege there.

By comparison, a 1996 standoff between the FBI and the anti-government Freemen in Montana ended without violence. FBI Director Louis Freeh said at the time that FBI reforms after Waco "put patience above the risk of bloodshed."

Reno insisted on that level of patience in Miami.

She recently said the government could have moved anytime since January to return Elian to his father, but chose instead to let the Miami relatives take the issue to court, where it remains.

Reno has strong ties to Miami, growing up in a house on the edge of the Everglades. She is the daughter of two journalists -- Jane, who worked for years for the now-defunct Miami News, and Henry, who spent four decades as a crime reporter for The Miami Herald.

Prominent attorney Aaron Podhurst met Reno 30 years ago, before she was elected five times as state attorney for what was then Dade County. As state attorney, Reno pioneered programs for juveniles, non-violent criminals and first-offenders and pushed for minority representation on her staff.

Podhurst said he knows the Elian case has affected Reno.

"I think she is suffering greatly that the Miami community is fractured," he said. "I still admire her and I believe she loves Miami as much as anyone."

Podhurst acted as a middleman for the failed last-minute negotiations between Elian's relatives and the government. He was one of four community leaders who volunteered to intervene Friday night -- and were in the midst of negotiations when federal agents broke in.

"I don't agree that we couldn't have worked out a peaceful solution so that the boy didn't have to be taken by force," he said.

But their relationship remains strong, he said, and they spoke for two hours Saturday. He asked her to meet with the community. "I asked her to consider to take part in the healing that needs to take place now."

Reno is no stranger to violence in Miami. As state attorney, she charged five white Miami-Dade police officers with the manslaughter of a black insurance executive after a motorcycle chase.

When they were acquitted in 1980, black rioters chanting "Reno, Reno, Reno" burned and looted. Eighteen people died and damage reached $200 million. Reno prosecuted the rioters, then worked hard to win back the black community's confidence.

Miami Mayor Joe Carollo, who is of Cuban descent, was sharply critical of the raid. Gov. Jeb Bush, a Republican, said he was "deeply disappointed" in the Justice Department action.

Winning back the confidence of the Cuban-American community will be Reno's toughest task.

"I can't talk about forgiveness," said protester Emy Peterson. "There are very deep wounds right now. This has been a betrayal by Janet Reno."

------

On the Net:

Immigration and Naturalization Service: www.ins.usdoj.gov

Miami relatives: libertyforelian.org

Justice Department: www.usdoj.gov