SALT LAKE CITY >> Resting usual starters Chris Paul, Blake Griffin, DeAndre Jordan and J.J. Redick, the Los Angeles Clippers came up with enough big plays to push aside the Utah Jazz.

Jamal Crawford made a 3-pointer with 0.2 seconds left and finished with 30 points in the Clippers’ 102-99 overtime victory Friday night. Crawford dribbled outside the arc until Derrick Favors shifted over to guard him and then calmly drained a basket over him.

“I feel comfortable in those situations,” Crawford said. “It was just a read at that point. Wherever I was in range to feel comfortable and I felt comfortable with that shot.”

Los Angeles (51-28) won for the eighth time in nine games.

Cole Aldrich added 21 points and 18 rebounds both season highs and a career-high five steals. Paul Pierce and Jeff Green each added 18 points. The Clippers played just nine players, but never lacked confidence they could prevail behind their second unit.

“We have all the confidence in the world with our second group,” Aldrich said. “We moved the ball and we had a bunch of guys out. We could have just said, ` You know what? We got six guys out. Let’s just get through this one and get home.’ We fought hard. That’s a big thing for our group getting through those tough times.”

Gordon Hayward had 24 points and 13 rebounds to lead the Jazz. Shelvin Mack and Rodney Hood each scored 13 points, and Derrick Favors had 11 points and 11 rebounds. Utah (39-40) lost its second straight game, complicating its bid to clinch one of the final playoff spots in the Western Conference.

After trailing the entire second quarter, Los Angeles finally charged back in front after halftime behind a flurry of 3-pointers. The Clippers went 5 of 7 from outside over the first six minutes of the third quarter. Crawford finished off the flurry with back-to-back 3-pointers, giving his team a 68-58 lead over Utah.

“Sometimes we get so aggressive we forget to talk to each other and wind up (giving up) an open shot for the other team,” Hood said.

Hayward sparked another Jazz rally with a buzzer beating 3-pointer at the end of the third quarter. Alec Burks followed by driving for layup and drilling another 3-pointer to put Utah back on top 77-76.

After the Clippers went up 85-79 behind a trio of baskets from Green, Utah used a 13-0 run to overtake Los Angeles and go up 92-85 with 4:07 left. Mack and Hood highlighted the run with back-to-back 3-pointers that put the Jazz ahead.

Los Angeles twice cut the deficit to two in the final minute of regulation and finally tied it on Aldrich’s putback layup with 2.4 seconds left.

“We believe in him,” Clippers coach Doc Rivers said. “That’s why we signed him. We just think Cole has the ability to play basketball. He’s a terrific player.”