Johannesburg - Oando plc, the Nigerian listed integrated energy solutions provider with operations across West Africa, announced on Monday that it has received approval for a secondary listing on the JSE.

It will list on the JSE on November 25 this year.

The company published its pre-listing statement on Monday, setting out the benefit of the South African investment community, information relating to Oando, its operations and management, together with historical financial information relating to Oando.

Group CEO Wale Tinubu said in the spirit of the New Partnership for Africa's Development (Nepad) initiative, we are excited to be the first African company to seek a cross-border inward listing in South Africa.

"As an innovative, dynamic, and rapidly growing company, we see listing on the JSE as providing an additional source of capital to facilitate our aggressive growth plans and enhance our profile in the global capital market.

"The listing also provides prospective emerging market investors with an opportunity to diversify into high growth global markets".

Oando currently has a primary listing on the Nigerian Stock Exchange and at the close of business on Friday, October 28 2005, had a market capitalisation of R3.1bn.

Originally focused on downstream petroleum marketing, Oando is today an integrated energy solutions provider with operations spread across West Africa, and spanning the energy value chain.

Primary businesses include Oando Marketing, Oando Trading, Africa's largest independent and privately owned oil trading company, Gaslink Limited, Oando Power, Oanda Energy Services, Oando Production & Development Company, which is an oil exploration and production company with three oil blocks in Nigeria, and Oando Refinery.

"From its beginnings in downstream marketing, Oando's vision has been to become the premier energy solutions company in Africa.

"Recently, we have become the largest oil marketing company in Nigeria - a market where all of the global majors are active - and have successfully commenced our diversification along the energy value chain.

"We pride ourselves on possessing a particular aptitude in identifying and flawlessly executing the exciting opportunities that exist in Africa," Tinubu said.