William Gordon McKinley, 32 years old, passed away unexpectedly at 9:07am on Thursday, January 25, 2024, at his home in South Bend. William was born on September 12, 1991, in Michigan City to Gordon William and Sherry Lynn (Armstrong) McKinley. He remained a lifelong resident of the area with a deep love of the Great Lakes and canoeing with his father and brother in Indiana’s many rivers.

Charismatic, gentle, and possessing a true generosity of spirit, William’s warmth drew people to him. With his fiancé, Matthew Strycker of South Bend, he participated in the Vickie’s Bar dart league and watched countless sunsets over Lake Michigan on trips to Saugatuck. He converted dozens of his friends and family into true Meryl Streep fans just as readily as he convinced them to watch horror movies with him.

William cherished his life with Matthew and their adopted dog, Piper. Their home has long been a meeting point for friends and family, where William was quick to share his love of cooking with a warm meal. Possessing a gift for storytelling, he would often share a tale with visitors. If you were lucky enough to hear William tell a story, you know that he could make you feel all the joy, sorrow, and excitement of it almost as if by magic, with just his words.

Quick to help, eager to listen, and incredibly big-hearted, William would do anything for anybody and his kindness quickly made strangers into friends. However, his sister, Haleigh, remained his very best friend throughout his life.

William’s unique presence will be sorely missed by all who knew him, though his strength of character will remain an inspiration for the many whose lives were touched by him.

William is survived by his parents, Gordon and Sherry McKinley of Rolling Prairie; fiancé Matthew Strycker of South Bend; sister Haleigh (Clayton) Hatfield of Trail Creek, IN; brother Brandon (Lindsey) Hunsley of Crown Point, IN; nieces Amelia and Charlotte; and grandparents Steve and Gloria Armstrong. He is also survived by his father-in-law Larry Strycker; sister-in-law Katie (Bob) Strang, and their children Reagan, Sam, and Hadley, who always lovingly knew him as Uncle William. William was beloved by his many aunts, uncles, and extended family. He was preceded in death by his grandparents, William Gordon McKinley and Kaye and Daniel Lotter; and great-grandparents Seldon and Martha Armstrong.

A celebration of William’s life will be held at The American Legion, 486 E. Michigan Street, New Carlisle, IN on Sunday, February 11, 2024. Friends may visit with the family beginning at 1pm ET through 4pm ET. Guests will be invited to share memories of William beginning at 3:30pm. Palmer Funeral Home-Guisinger Chapel in South Bend is assisting the family.

William’s family encourages all to share their memories of him on the listing for William found at palmerfuneralhomes.com. William was a lover of art and beauty, therefore in lieu of flowers, contributions in memory of William Gordon McKinley can be made to the South Bend Symphony at southbendsymphony.org/support.