During the first season of Shondaland's hit Netflix series Bridgerton, you may remember that we brought you the Bridgerton Cast Questionnaire, which introduced you a bit more intimately to the many women and men who make up the characters of the hit Shondaland show. It was a part-serious, part-silly question-and-answer rundown that shed some light on what makes these actors tick and what makes their characters tock. This year, we’ve brought the Questionnaire back, naturally, to make sure you’ve got your peacocks in a row as Bridgerton’s second season ramps up for its premiere on Friday, March 25.

When Mary Sharma enters a room, it is with grace and fortitude, kindness and empathy. Honestly, she’s the mother we never knew we needed, so it seems fitting to give her the nickname Mama Sharma. But Lady Mary, though new to us, is no stranger to the London marriage mart and all of its intricacies. She was once a part of it herself — the former Diamond named by the Queen herself, in fact. But she fell in love with someone not suitable to her well-to-do family and was thus cast out from society in scandal. Now, Mary is back, and with two new young women in her stead: her daughters, Edwina (Charithra Chandran) and Kate (Simone Ashley).

Shelley Conn, who plays Lady Mary, hasn’t had to deal with quite as much scandal in her life, and she was never banished from her hometown of London, but she’s still a prolific force. An actress for more than 20 years, Conn co-starred in the wildly popular Mistresses (which was remade in the U.S. on ABC) and will be seen in next season’s Good Omens. She also played Princess Pondicherry in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory and starred in the 2006 indie film Nina’s Heavenly Delights.

As we gear up for the premiere of the second season of Bridgerton, let’s get to know the matriarch of the newest Bridgerton family. Here, Conn gives us some glimpses into who she is when she’s not playing Mama Sharma and a few tidbits about the lovely character of Lady Mary.

What do you have in common with your character?

SHELLEY CONN: I definitely responded to the fact that we’re both mothers. I found myself feeling very drawn to Charithra and Simone in a female, familial way. We both like pink tones and have a penchant for a tiara on a night out!

What do you not have in common with your character?

The time period removes so many similarities. I haven’t been disowned by my parents, thank goodness. Nor do I have to concern myself with the issue of dowries and marital matchmaking.

What’s your favorite time of day, and why?

I love the quiet intimacy of the morning when no one else is awake and you can sense the secrets from the night before.

What’s your character’s favorite time of day, and why?

I think Lady Mary enjoys midafternoon. Who wouldn’t with those incredible cakes on offer?

Shelley Conn as Mary Sharma in the second season of Bridgerton.

This season brings another part of the world into the ton — is traveling important to you?

I love traveling and have done a lot of it since my early childhood. It’s an enormous privilege, and often now (with climate change) feels unethical. But it’s so wonderful to be away from home sometimes and gather a different perspective on life.

What is a place or an experience that really imprinted on you when you were traveling?

It’s always exciting traveling for work. Spending 20 hours in Stockholm during winter was interesting. The sun never rose, so I only saw the city by snow glow.

Have you ever ridden a horse?

Only a few times, and I’d love to do it more. One time, I rode a very old stunt horse over the sunset trail in the Hollywood Hills, and that was pretty special. I’d love to learn to ride well enough to gallop across a beach!

Newton is a new addition to the world of Bridgerton. Do you have any stories dealing with said diva on set?

Austin, who played Newton, danced to the rhythm of his own drum, and I fell for him!

Do you have a sport that you’re particularly good at playing? And if not, is there one you’ve secretly — or not so secretly — wanted to try?

I was very sporty as a kid but gave up any athletic pursuits for drama. Now I just love being a fair-weather fan of all sports. The big occasions are irresistible: Olympics, World Cup football [soccer]. I love tennis and have had my brain blown out of my head from watching Cheer!

Who inspires you?

Anybody who is authentic to themselves.

What advice would you give someone who wants to act?

Persistence is everything — don’t give up. And keep learning any skill you can. Life experience and empathy are essential tools as an actor.

Do you prefer to watch drama or comedy? Or perhaps your favorite is another genre altogether?

Dramas that are funny are often winners, like Succession. And I love well-presented documentaries.

What was the most embarrassing thing that happened to you recently?

I didn’t realize that I used a correct but wrongly positioned letter in Wordle until my final attempt. I didn’t post that result anywhere! Also, I’m constantly tripping up over my own feet and blushing.

What do you consider your best achievement?

My children, my family.

What in your opinion is the most exciting part of this work?

I love that there is such a variety in all areas: genre, project, character, locations, colleagues.

If you weren’t an actress, what do you think you’d be?

Grumpy.

Is there a character in the series, not your own, whom you are drawn to or can relate to, and why?

I think I am drawn to Queen Charlotte more than any of the others. She has such a contrast between her public persona and her inner life, and I think it would be a thrill to play her. But Golda owns the role and plays her with grace and wit. It’s pure fantasy on my part!

Valentina Valentini is a London-based entertainment, travel, and food writer and also a Senior Contributor for Shondaland. Elsewhere she has written for Vanity Fair, Vulture, Variety, Thrillist, Heated, and The Washington Post. Her personal essays can be read in the Los Angeles Times, Longreads, and her tangents and general complaints can be seen on Twitter at @ByValentinaV.