View waymark gallery

Harold Lloyd - Glendale, CA

Posted by: hykesj

N 34° 07.330 W 118° 14.918

11S E 384853 N 3776405

Crypt of Harold Lloyd, actor and pioneering comedian from the silent film era.

Waymark Code: WM18R7M

Location: California, United States

Published By: Alfouine

Views: 1

“The more trouble you get a man into, the more comedy you get out of him.”

- Harold Lloyd

Born in Nebraska into a broken family, young Harold Lloyd moved with his father to southern California in the early part of the twentieth century. His first acting stint was with Thomas Edison. (You know you’re a pioneer in the film industry if you got your start working for Thomas Edison.) After a move to Hollywood, Lloyd received some bit roles before landing a steady gig with Roach studios as “Lonesome Luke,” a typical comedic role of that era.

Growing tired of the “Lonesome Luke” character, Lloyd created his most famous persona: a kind of everyman in ordinary clothes with a pair of horn-rimmed glasses who was constantly getting into trouble. Along with Charlie Chapman and Buster Keaton, Harold Lloyd dominated the silent film-era comedy genre. His most iconic scenes have him dangling high above city streets from skyscrapers, clocks etc.

After an incredible string of successful silent films, Lloyd was able to transition to the ‘talkies,’ but by the Great Depression, his popularity had begun to fade. After a career that included appearances in over 200 films, Harold Lloyd died in 1971 at the age of 77. He is interred in the Great Mausoleum at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Glendale, CA, specifically in the Begonia tier.

(Source: wikipedia.org)

Description:

See Long Description above.Date of birth: 04/20/1893Date of death: 03/08/1971Area of notoriety: EntertainmentMarker Type: PlaqueSetting: IndoorVisiting Hours/Restrictions: 8:00 am to 6:00 pmFee required?: NoWeb site: [Web Link]

Visit Instructions:

To post a visit log for waymarks in this category, you must have personally visited the waymark location. When logging your visit, please provide a note describing your visit experience, along with any additional information about the waymark or the surrounding area that you think others may find interesting.

We especially encourage you to include any pictures that you took during your visit to the waymark. However, only respectful photographs are allowed. Logs which include photographs representing any form of disrespectful behavior (including those showing personal items placed on or near the grave location) will be subject to deletion.

Search for...

Geocaching.com Google Map

Google Maps

MapQuest

Bing Maps

Nearest Waymarks

Nearest Grave of a Famous Person

Nearest Geocaches

Create a scavenger hunt using this waymark as the center point

Recent Visits/Logs:

There are no logs for this waymark yet.