Doctor Who cancelled. The three words no Whovian ever wanted to read in the same sentence. Well, technically, it was never actually cancelled, depending on who you ask...

The BBC show is arguably one of the most iconic British science fiction franchises of all time and is certainly the longest-running show the world has ever seen in its genre.

At 869 episodes and counting over 59 years, Doctor Who's place in the history of television is assured. And yet, in 1989, the BBC felt compelled to take it off the air, leaving fans to wait 16 long years for its return.

Read more: Doctor Who: New cast decision teases Doctor's future incarnations

When the Doctor and his TARDIS came back to our screens in 2005, it propelled itself to new global heights.

However, the heyday of David Tennant has waned since the turn of the last decade and viewing figures have stalled since Jodie Whittaker became the first female in the lead role.

That has caused many fans of the modern show to wonder what caused the BBC to shelf the Doctor last time around, perhaps fearing a similar decision will be made again.

Doctor Who was originally 'cancelled' because of dwindling viewing figures and a series of behind-the-scenes production issues. But, as with any event of seismic galactic significance, it all began long before the end...

Read more: Doctor Who TARDIS-like police boxes still standing in the UK today

YOU COULDN'T WRITE IT

Doctor Who was cancelled in 1989 but the seeds of that demise were sown in 1982.

It was a year of massive change for the show as Tom Baker, who had held the role for seven years, stood down as the Doctor. The show was already a well-established national treasure when he took over from Jon Pertwee in 1974 and yet Baker remains the most iconic actor from the first television era of Doctor Who. That says all you need to know about his time as the Time Lord.

So, following him was always going to be a daunting task - but then-producer John Nathan-Turner pulled off what some saw as a coup by casting Peter Davison as the new frontman.

Typically, actors who play the Doctor leave the show more famous than when they started, with three possible exceptions. Christopher Eccleston was a big name before bringing Doctor Who back in 2005, another is Peter Capaldi, who rose to television fame as Malcolm Tucker on 'The Thick of It' before collecting the keys to the TARDIS. The third is Davison.

Already an established television face through 'All Creatures Great and Small', which he had worked on with Nathan-Turner, 29-year-old Davison was the youngest man ever to play the Doctor at the time. He held that record until 2009 when Matt Smith accepted the role aged 26.

Very few have ever questioned Davison's credentials on Doctor Who. In fact, he is seen as having succeeded where lesser actors may have failed, in following up the show's most iconic lead star with an entirely different, and effective, approach.

However, his status was arguably a key factor in his decision to leave after just three seasons as he has long cited the show's decreasing quality of writing as a reason for his departure.

In recent years, Davison has claimed to be a much bigger fan of modern day Doctor Who and Big Finish audio productions, than he was of the general standard of writing during his original television run.

"There were some very suspect scripts we did, knocked off by TV writers who'd turn their hand to anything," he told Digital Spy in 2008. "Fair enough, but they weren't science fiction fans.

"You do get the impression, both with the television series now and Big Finish, that they are fans of science fiction and that's why they are doing those stories."

Five years later, he told the same publication that, during the 1980s, Doctor Who writers struggled to create what he considered to be satisfying relationships between the Doctor and his companions too.

He said: "They were struggling for many years to make the companions more rounded characters and... they never once thought it was a good idea to put any frisson or sexual tension – even in its most innocent form – between the Doctor and companion.

"I think it would make it easier to write a better character.

"All I know is they've struggled for many years to write a good companion's part.

"I don't think they've ever really managed it till Rose [played by Billie Piper], when the series came back [in 2005]."

Writing was something of a sore subject for Doctor Who during this time. In 1982, Eric Saward became Nathan-Turner's script editor but the pair had something of a tumultuous relationship.

Nathan-Turner's work in television up until then had consisted more of production than writing, which has been seen by some as a key point of contention between him and Saward before his departure in 1986.

Either way, a less-established actor than Davison might have been happier to stick out what he perceived to be poor writing, knowing it meant longer playing the best role in the BBC's portfolio.

Which begs the question: Had Nathan-Turner not been forced into casting such a high-profile replacement for the iconic Fourth Doctor, would the BBC have been left needing to cast yet another Doctor in 1984? Perhaps not.

That, of course, led to the signing of Sixth Doctor Colin Baker, a decision that would, perhaps unfairly, cause more damage to Doctor Who's standing with BBC executives... But more on that later.

Want more Doctor Who news?

Doctor Who: BBC nearly gave Time Lord the surname 'Who'

Olly Alexander casts 'new Doctor' rumours aside

WHEN IS DOCTOR WHO ON? SORRY, DON'T KNOW

Remember when we said 1982 was a massive year of change for Doctor Who? Well, not only did Tom Baker say goodbye to the long coat and scarf that year, so did Saturday nights.

For 19 years, the British population knew three certainties: Death, taxes and Doctor Who on Saturday evening after the football results.

For Davison's season 19 debut, the show was moved from its traditional once-weekly Saturday broadcast slot to two episodes per week. Sounds amazing, right? Well, only if you're around on a Monday and Tuesday evening.

That's right, from 1982, Saturday night was now Doctor-less. This was especially confusing for casual viewers, who had always been a vitally important bracket of fans for television executives pouring over viewing figures.

As this change wasn't especially well-communicated to those groups, it is often seen as a reason why public perception of Doctor Who began to dwindle ever so slightly in 1982. In a day and age before re-runs, following each serial got that little bit harder if you didn't realise the cliffhanger you waited a week for was answered six days ago - and you'd missed a whole episode.

While there was an initial bump in viewing figures compared to Baker's final season in season 19, season 20 took another dip after yet another change to the broadcast schedule.

Tuesdays and Wednesdays were the days for Doctor Who in 1983 and in 1984, Davison's final season at the helm, it moved again, this time to Thursday and Friday evenings... Except that episodes 11 and 12 of season 21 were broadcast on two consecutive Wednesday nights. Chaotic to say the least.

Where previously fans knew they would catch the next Doctor Who episode on Saturday nights, they now had to search the television pages every week to make sure they didn't miss it. Naturally, the more hardcore fans were always the most likely to keep up that ritual. Casuals, meanwhile, slipped through the cracks.

Want more Doctor Who news?

Doctor Who: 'Catherine Tate to return as companion' says BBC source

David Tennant return rumours continue as GMB presenter grills BBC boss

ANOTHER BAKER

1985: Doctor Who was back on Saturdays again. Brilliant news, yes, but it came with some catches.

Firstly, episodes were now 45 minutes long, having lasted roughly half that time for over two decades. Yet another change that alienated some of those casual viewers needed to take figures back into orbit.

And let's not forget one of the most iconic hallmarks of classic Doctor Who: cliffhangers.

Colin Baker has long spoken of his disappointment in not getting as many of those scenes to act in as his predecessors.

Also, while the screentime was exactly the same as the previous season, the double-length episodes meant that Doctor Who was only on screens for 12 days of the year. While that may seem to tally with what modern audiences have experienced, seasons one through six featured roughly 40 episodes each, giving Doctor Who the same prime time presence as a soap. From seasons seven to 21, Doctor Who had anywhere between 20 and 26 episodes per season, still a relatively solid share of the television landscape.

The second catch, if you were the BBC top brass, was that Colin Baker was Davison's replacement as the new Doctor. The sixth incarnation of the travelling Time Lord is often considered to be the most misunderstood of them all and there is no denying that Baker was dealt a real rough hand during his time in the TARDIS.

But it is true that fans took a little time to warm to the character, which Baker and producer Nathan-Turner had settled on being a complex version of the Doctor to begin with.

At first, audiences did not like the abrasive nature of the Sixth Doctor. In his first story, still fresh from regenerating, he attacked then-companion Peri, strangling her much to viewers' collective shock.

Doctor Who had been fighting claims that it was too violent since Mary Whitehouse's criticism in the 1970s, which had prompted a change in BBC policy in producing the series, with much tighter controls imposed on the production team.

However, this was a tightrope that Nathan-Turner was very happy to tread in the 1980s, claiming that whenever Whitehouse slated violent scenes on Doctor Who, the viewing figures would rise accordingly.

However, that attitude soon landed him in trouble with the BBC themselves...

HEAVY GRADE

Enter Michael Grade, possibly one of the most unpopular names in Doctor Who fandom history. Don't worry, that's a title he seems to wear proudly, showing off his Horse's Ass Award from the Doctor Who Appreciation Society of America on a 2002 appearance on Paul Merton's Room 101.

Just seven weeks into Baker's first full season as the Doctor (his first full story was the final serial of the previous season), Grade, controller for BBC One at the time, announced that season 23, which was scheduled for January to March 1986, would be postponed until he had decided whether or not the show's budget would be 'better spent' on other productions.

The quality of production, excessive levels of violence and reaction to Baker's Doctor were all cited among reasons for this decision.

"When I was controller of BBC One, I cancelled the show," said Grade in a 2002 interview. "I thought it was rubbish. I thought it was pathetic.

"I mean I'd seen Star Wars and I'd seen Close Encounters and E.T. and then I had to watch these cardboard things probably clonking across the floor.

"You're trying to scare kids but you'd just sit and laugh at it.

"I actually hate sci-fi, to begin with. I'm not a sci-fi fan.

"But it seemed to me that Doctor Who was caught in a time warp, really, so to speak.

"I think it was a waste of the licence payer's money... those that paid their licence, that is."

The postponement turned into an, at the time, unprecedented 18-month hiatus for Doctor Who, which produced an incredible backlash from fans.

"Well, actually, what happened was there was a huge press campaign to save Doctor Who and when newspapers get a lot of letters on a subject, they think it's a hot topic," said Grade.

"They got thousands and thousands of letters from the three fans who were up all night writing thousands and thousands of letters.

"And I was up before the BBC board of governors for this thing and the upshot of it all was I did cancel it."

In 1986, after immense public pressure, Grade decided season 24 of Doctor Who could only happen on the condition that Colin Baker was removed from the title role as he felt his incarnation was "utterly unlikeable".

This was a huge blow to Nathan-Turner and Baker, who both possessed a long-term vision for the Sixth Doctor to be a character who enjoyed a long-term development in the eyes of the viewers.

"Tom Baker did it for seven years," said Baker in 1986. "There's a part of me which likes to have a tilt at records.

"I would like to think that maybe I'd still be doing it in eight years' time."

Alas, it was not meant to be.

And, if Grade hadn't tarnished his Who reputation enough, Grade later went on to say in a 2004 interview: "I thought it was horrible, awful. I thought it was so outdated. It was just a little show for a few pointy-head Doctor Who fans. It was also very violent and it had lost its magic."

Want more Doctor Who news?

Billie Piper to return to Doctor Who franchise in 2022

Doctor Who: Jeremy Clarkson slams BBC sci-fi show for 'lecturing' viewers

THE REAL MCCOY

What ensued was a battle of wills between the BBC and Baker which led to the worst regeneration scene of all time.

As his replacement wasn't hired until after production finished on season 23, the aptly named 'Trial of a Time Lord' concluded with the Sixth Doctor very much alive.

At first, the actor was offered a single four-part story at the start of season 24, in which he would die and subsequently regenerate into the seventh incarnation.

Baker refused, offering instead to do the entirety of that season and regenerate at its conclusion. The BBC never responded to that letter.

So, the BBC were tasked with filming the Sixth Doctor's regeneration in episode one of season 24... without the actor who played him.

Their solution? Stick Seventh Doctor actor Sylvester McCoy in a Colin Baker wig. No, seriously.

In a 2019 interview with the Radio Times, Baker expressed regret at that decision, claiming he was "brutally selfish at the time" and "forgot about the fans".

They have been forgiving, of course, voting Baker as the president of the Doctor Who Appreciation Society in 2011, winning more votes than all other candidates combined.

SYLV-ER LINING

The introduction of the Seventh Doctor did not have the desired impact on viewing figures that BBC executives had hoped for.

However, this was less to do with McCoy taking on the role and more to do with the fact that... guess what? The broadcast slot moved. Again.

Doctor Who was removed from Saturday nights once again, pushed into Monday evenings and into direct competition with ITV soap opera Coronation Street.

By this point, episodes were back to 25 minutes in length but the hoped return of a mass casual audience simply didn't happen.

At first, a report into audience reaction found that the Seventh Doctor, and companion Mel, carried over from the Sixth Doctor and played by Bonnie Langford, were even less popular at the time than the previous seasons.

So, the BBC got to tweaking things again, this time for the better, if you ask most fans. McCoy's Doctor was given a bit more gravitas for his second season and, for the rest of his time in the TARDIS he was joined by the strong-willed Ace.

Played by Sophie Aldred, the character was a kick-ass fend-for-herself young woman with a penchant for smashing things, sometimes Daleks, with a baseball bat long before you'd ever heard of Negan.

Those changes certainly struck a chord with some fans, McCoy and Aldred have remained fixtures of Big Finish content for 20 years now.

However, the bump it caused in the 1988 and 1989 viewing figures simply wasn't enough.

In 1989, then head of series at the BBC, Peter Cregeen made the decision to give Doctor Who a 'rest'. According to official statements, Doctor Who was never actually cancelled, simply put on an indefinite hiatus.

For example, in November of that year, Cregeen said in the Radio Times: "There are no plans to axe Doctor Who,' but added 'There may be a little longer between this series and the next than usual."

What ensued was a journey of struggle to find new ways to make Doctor Who, with Cregeen keen that happen outside of the BBC.

For most of the 1990s, Doctor Who fans had to get most of their new material through novels and audio plays. It wasn't until 1996 that the show returned to screens, although by then it was in a completely different format altogether.

But, perhaps that's a story for another day...