New builds in Kastamonu

Kastamonu is a city in the northern part of Turkey, in the Black Sea region. It is the administrative center of the province Kastamonu, located in the valley of the Karachomak stream, at an altitude of about 800 m above sea level.

The climate is humid continental (Köppen classification), with cold winters and warm summers. The average annual rainfall is distributed evenly throughout the year, with spring being the wettest season.

Buying an apartment in Kastamonu in a new build for sale becomes more profitable

Clean soil, water and air give an advantage for organic agriculture (crops and livestock). Grapes, rice, chestnut, pear, walnut, cranberry, plum, garlic, einkorn, bulgur are grown in the surroundings, and honey is also produced there. The second most important sector is public and private services.

Kastamonu is called the "city of saints". It occupies an important place in religious tourism, there are many artifacts from the ancient (paleolithic, eneolithic) and Turkish-Islamic periods. Thanks to religious and historical buildings, the interest of foreign tourists is growing.

Kastamonu Airport is located 15 km from the center and serves domestic passenger and cargo flights. The bus station has connections with most major cities in Turkey.

Kastamonu has a university with 13 faculties, 2 institutes, 3 colleges, 13 vocational schools and 19 research and application centers. Students who come here become tenants of primary real estate as well. As investors are attracted by the opportunity to generate rental income in private residences, demand for Kastamonu property in the new development is growing.

Residential complexes in Kastamonu are being built in accordance with high Turkish quality standards, which is confirmed by the feedback from buyers of housing in new homes for sale. LCDs provide apartments of different comfort classes, including elite class. Developers can provide discounts and installments.

According to the information provided by the real estate search engine GEOLN.COM, the minimum price per square meter of space in a new home from a developer in Kastamonu (apartments handed over in black frame condition) is 220 USD.

Popular places in the city and its surroundings

Castle of Kastamonu

Baths: Frenkshaha, Dede Sultan, Ferhatpasha, etc.

Mosques: Atabey, Nasrullah, Mahmut Bey, Ev Rok

Tombs: Sheikh Shaban-i Veli, Yanyk Sultan

Clock tower

Nasrullah bridge

City historical museum

Historical mansions: Ballik, Ismail Bey, Sirkeli, Tahir Efendi, etc.

Ancient city of Pompeiipolis

National parks

Canyons

Bays Gunolu, Inebolu, Gadzhiveli with emerald-blue water, sandy beaches and dense green forests are often called "hidden paradise" and they are located one and a half hours drive from Kastamonu.

40 km from the city center is the Ilgaz ski resort with stunning views for lovers of winter recreation, skiing and snowboarding.

National Park of Mount Kure, which attracts the attention of speleologists is located 100 km away from the city. The most famous caves are Ice, Dragon, Ilgarin, and Medil.

Conditions for buying apartments from the developers in Kastamonu by foreigners

The sale of apartments from the developers to foreigners is prohibited in military zones and regions considered strategic. These zones are determined by the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Turkey. Foreign investors can buy an apartment from a developer in Kastamonu without any restrictions.

Purchasing an apartment in a new development in Kastamonu is an investment with the aim of generating rental income in a developing city of tourism and students.