Born. To Singing Actress Anne Jeffreys, 35, and Actor Robert Sterling, 41, the ghost husband and wife in TV’s Topper series: their second child, second son (he has a daughter by a previous marriage to Actress Ann Sothern); in Burbank, Calif. Name: Robert Dana. Weight: 7 Ibs. 12 oz.

Born. To George M. Leader, 40, Democratic Governor of Pennsylvania, and Mary Leader, 39: their third son, fourth child; in Harrisburg, Pa. Name: David Charles. Weight: 9 Ibs.

Married. Jean Seberg, 19, cornfed cinemactress who at 17 was chosen for movie stardom as Joan of Arc in Bernard Shaw’s Saint Joan; and Francois Moreuil, 24, Harvard-trained French lawyer; in Marshalltown, Iowa.

Married. Amelia Eden, 25, niece of former British Prime Minister Anthony Eden; and Giovanni Borrelli, 30, $35-a-week engine-room mate on a ferryboat that runs between Naples and Ischia; in Ischia, Italy. Said the bride’s mother: “I’m not worried about Amelia’s happiness. I know she will be happy. What worries me is the plumbing.”

Married. Sarah Vaughan, 34, supple-voiced Negro jazz singer; and Clyde Brooks Atkins, 30, owner of a fleet of taxicabs on Chicago’s South Side, onetime football fullback; she for the second time, he for the first; in a City Hall ceremony, in Chicago. Witness: Trumpeter John Birks (“Dizzy”) Gillespie. The bride wore a white trapeze dress and green shoes. The witness wore a brown-and-white cord suit, pink shirt, red-and-black tie, and, on his head, a diamond-patterned, black-and-white tarboosh.*

Married. Jeff Donnell, 37, actress who is giving up her job as Comedian George Gobel’s TV wife; and Manhattan adman John Bricker II, 39; he for the second time, she for the third (her second: Actor Aldo Ray); in Van Nuys, Calif.

Died. George Fingold, 49, attorney general of Massachusetts, Republican nominee for governor in the coming November elections; of a heart attack; in Concord, Mass. The new nominee is onetime Massachusetts house of representatives Speaker Charles Gibbons, 57, who irritated his colleagues last spring when he refused to become “a sacrificial lamb” by running for U.S. Senator against John Kennedy.

Died. Lady Beecham, 50, British concert pianist (Betty Humby), wife of Conductor Sir Thomas Beecham, 79; of a heart attack; in Buenos Aires, where Sir Thomas was completing a concert series.

* A red cap worn by Moslem men. Dizzy’s version was given to him by Omar Mohallim Mohamed, recent special representative at the U.N. from Italian Somaliland.