The euro is the main unit of currency used by most countries in the European Union. As of January 2023, a total of 20 full members of the European Union have designated the euro as their primary currency, and six additional members are in the process of completing the prerequisites so they can do the same. In addition, a handful of non-EU countries and several territories with ties to EU countries (particularly France) have also adopted the euro.

The euro was officially named in 1995, and it was introduced as an accounting currency in 1999. In 2002, physical banknotes and coins issued in euros entered circulation, and a few months later, it replaced the former currencies of many EU member nations.

EU member countries that use the euro*:

EU member countries in the process of adopting the euro:

Bulgaria

Czech Republic

Hungary

Poland

Romania

Sweden

Non-EU countries that use the euro:

Andorra

Monaco

Montenegro

San Marino

Vatican City

Kosovo (partially recognized)

Territories that use the euro**:

Euro denominations and international acceptance

The euro has the highest total value of notes and coins in circulation out of all of the world's currencies. It is the second-largest and second-most-traded currency globally, falling behind only the United States dollar. Like the U.S. dollar, each euro is made up of 100 cents—however, euros and euro cents have different monetary values than do U.S. dollars and cents.

The European Central Bank issues the euro, which is available as banknotes and coins. Denominations of 5, 10, 20, 50, and 100 euro are frequently used. Less frequently used are 200 and 500 euro banknotes. Coins that are commonly used in nations that use the euro are 1 cent, 2 cents, 5 cents, 10 cents, 20 cents, 50 cents, 1 euro, and 2 euro.

All 20 EU members that use the euro belong to the eurozone, an international economic alliance that also includes a few countries, such as Vatican City and Andorra, that are not EU members, but which have nonetheless adopted the euro as their official currency. The eurozone had a collective population of approximately 341 million people as of January 2022. A number of non-eurozone countries have also adopted the euro or made plans to do so.