SUGAR GROVE, Ill. – Arkansas rising senior Julian Perico (Peru) teamed with South Carolina rising junior and SEC women’s champion Pauline Roussin-Bouchard (France) for Team International against Pierceson Coody (Texas) and Gina Kim (Duke) of Team USA in the opening-day mixed fourball competition of the 2021 Arnold Palmer Cup at Rich Harvest Farms. The match featured two lengthy weather delays and was tied through 17 holes with Team USA carding an eagle on the final hole to win 1-Up.

Overall, Team International and Team USA are tied, 6-6, after 12 matches on day one.

The annual Ryder Cup-style competition that features the top men’s and women’s collegiate golfers from around the world will continue with two sessions Saturday (foursomes in the morning and mixed foursomes in the afternoon). The event will conclude with singles matches on Sunday.

Playing in the anchor match (Match 12), Perico and Roussin-Bouchard and their opponents both birdied the par-4, 1st hole. Perico and Roussin-Bouchard followed with a birdie on the par-5, 2nd hole. Team International pushed their lead to 2-UP with a birdie on the 5th hole. The match came to a lengthy halt – a one-hour and 50-minute weather delay – Team USA came out of the break to cut its deficit in half with a birdie on the par-5, 7th. However, Team International returned to a 2-up lead at the turn with a birdie to close the front nine.

Team USA opened the back nine by winning the 10th hole with a par. After a second lengthy weather delay (one hour and 10 minutes), Team USA won the next two holes to go 1-up through 12. Perico and Roussin-Bouchard bounced back with a birdie on the par-3, 13th to square the match. The two sides each won the next two holes to knot things up with one home to play, Team USA with a birdie on the par-3, 16th and Team International with a birdie on the par-4, 17th. While the Internationals had a birdie on the final hole, Team USA carded an eagle to win the match and make day one a 6-6 score after 12 matches.