There was a substantial Australian presence at the French Open 2024 tennis Grand Slam, which began at the Roland Garros in Paris on May 26.

A whopping eight Australian tennis players, led by world No. 11 Alex de Minaur, were involved in the men’s singles main draw at the clay-court Grand Slam this year, making it the biggest Roland Garros contingent for the Aussies in the event since 1999.

De Minaur was the highest-seeded Australian singles player in the tournament, at 11th. Alexei Popyrin, the 2017 Roland Garros boys’ singles champion, was also in the fray. Australia's challenge in the men's singles ended with De Minaur's loss to Alexander Zverev in the quarter-finals.

Two Australian women qualified for the singles main draw for Roland Garros 2024. Daria Saville, ranked 84th in the tennis rankings, was joined by wildcard entry Ajla Tomljanovic. Neither progressed past the first round.

The men’s doubles competition at the French Open saw seven Australians, including five former Grand Slam winners, take the court.

World No. 3 Matthew Ebden partnered India’s Rohan Bopanna and the second-seeded pair, looking for their second Grand Slam title of the year after clinching the Australian Open, had their campaign cut short in the semi-finals.

No Australian has been able to land their hands on the French Open men’s doubles title since Todd Woodbridge and Mark Woodforde triumphed in 2000.

Max Purcell and Jordan Thompson were the only all-Aussie pair at this year’s French Open.

Carrying the Aussie hopes in women’s doubles was world No. 7 Ellen Perez, who partnered Nicole Melichar-Martinez. The duo made the semi-finals last year and were the second seeds in 2024. They were ousted in the third round.

Alicia Molik was the last Australian women’s doubles champion at Roland Garros, winning the 2007 title with Italy’s Mara Santangelo.

Perez and Ebden also paired up for the mixed doubles draw for Roland Garros 2024. The all-Australian pair was the top-seeded team in the event but lost in the quarter-finals.

Australian tennis players at French Open 2024

Men’s singles: Alex de Minaur, Alexei Popyrin, Thanasi Kokkinakis, Rinky Hijikata, Max Purcell, Adam Walton, Aleksandar Vukic, Jordan Thompson

Women’s singles: Ajla Tomljanovic, Daria Saville

Men’s doubles: Matthew Ebden (AUS)/Rohan Bopanna (IND), Max Purcell (AUS)/Jordan Thompson (AUS), John-Patrick Smith (AUS)/Denys Molchanov (UKR), Rinky Hijikata (AUS)/Guido Andreozzi (ARG), John Peers (AUS)/Roman Safiullin ( ), Thanasi Kokkinakis (AUS)/Denis Shapovalov (CAN)

Women’s doubles: Ellen Perez (AUS)/Nicole Melichar-Martinez (USA), Daria Saville (AUS)/Ajla Tomljanovic (AUS)

Mixed doubles: Ellen Perez (AUS)/Matt Ebden (AUS), Nicole Melichar-Martinez (USA)/John Peers (AUS)