Princely House of Ligne

HH The Prince

HRH The Princess

HH The Hereditary Prince

HH Princess Alix

HH Prince Wauthier

HH Princess Regine

HH Prince Philippe

HH Princess Laetitia

HH Prince Jean Charles

HH Princess Aliénor

HH Princess Melanie Yolande

HH Princess Élisabeth Éléonore, Baroness Gillès de Pelichy

HH Princess Anne Marie, Mrs. Mortgat

HRH Princess Christine of Orléans-Braganza

HH The Countess of Nicolay

HH Prince Antoine

HH Princess Jacqueline

HH Prince Louis

HH Princess Marie

HH Princess Florence

Extended family

HI&RH Archduchess Yolande of Austria

HH Princess Maria

HH Princess Hedwige Marie of Merode

HH Prince Charles Antoine

HH Princess Alyette

HH Prince Edouard Lamoral

HH Princess Isabella

HH Princess Althea

HH Princess Athénaïs

HH Prince Antoine

HH Prince Charles Joseph

HH Princess Ran

HH Prince Amadeo Joseph

HH Princess Marie, Mrs. Guzmán y Bustos

HH Princess Helene, Mrs. Whitwell

Eleonora, Princess of Ligne (born Eleonora Maria Josefa Rosa Filipa Miguela Gabriela Rafaela Gonzaga de Orléans e Bragança e Wittelsbach on 20 May 1953) is the wife of Michel, 14th Prince of Ligne, the head of the House of Ligne since 2005. She is a daughter of Prince Pedro Henrique of Orléans-Braganza and his wife Princess Maria Elisabeth of Bavaria. Her father was the titular Emperor of Brazil, a claim now held by Eleonora's brother Prince Luiz.

Family and education[edit]

By her father she is a great-great-granddaughter of Emperor Pedro II of Brazil and descendant of many European royal houses. By her mother, she is great-granddaughter of King Ludwig III of Bavaria. Her older brother Prince Antônio of Orléans-Braganza is married to Princess Christine of Ligne, a sister of her husband.

Eleonora has a degree in history from Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro.

Marriage[edit]

On 10 March 1981 in Rio de Janeiro, Eleonora married Michel, Hereditary Prince of Ligne (born 26 May 1951 in Belœil). Michel is the eldest son of Antoine, 13th Prince of Ligne and Princess Alix of Luxembourg (herself a daughter of Charlotte, Grand Duchess of Luxembourg).

They have two children:

Princess Alix Marie Isabelle Adelgonde Eléonore de Ligne (born 3 July 1984 in Brussels), married on 18 June 2016 in Belœil, Count Guillaume Aymar Emmanuel de Dampierre (born 4 May 1985 in Paris), son of Count Audouin de Dampierre and Countess, née Roselyne de Biaudos de Castéja. They have one daughter and one son:

Countess Olympia de Dampierre (born 21 December 2017 in Rio de Janeiro)

Count Guy de Dampierre (born 16 September 2019 in Rio Janeiro)

Prince Henri Antoine Gabriël Wauthier Marie Lamoral of Ligne (born 1 March 1989 in Brussels)

Succession[edit]

Michel succeeded as 14th Prince of Ligne on 21 August 2005, making Eleonora Princess of Ligne. The couple have an important social role in Belgium among charitable organizations, where they live with their children.

Titles, Styles

20 May 1953-present Her Highness Princess Eleanora of Brazil

3 March 1985-21 August 2005: Her Highness The Hereditary Princess of Ligne

21 August 2005-present Her Highness The Princess of Ligne

Honors[edit]

House of Braganza : Dame of the Order of Saint Isabel (27/10/2012).

Ancestry[edit]

References[edit]

This article incorporates information from the Portuguese Wikipedia.

Eleonora, Princess of Ligne

Born: 20 May 1953 Titles in pretence Preceded by

Princess Isabel Maria of Orléans-Braganza — TITULAR —

Vassouras line of succession to the Brazilian throne

7th in line

Reason for succession failure:

Empire abolished in 1889 Succeeded by

Prince Henri Antoine of Ligne