Adobe recently launched Photoshop Express, the company's new online photo editing and sharing service, but as savvy readers have pointed out, to use Express you need to agree to terms of service that appear to grant Adobe the "worldwide, royalty-free, nonexclusive, perpetual, irrevocable" right to do basically whatever it wants with your images.

Obviously those are unacceptable terms for most people, especially given that there are plenty of other free online image editors that don't involve giving any rights to your photos.

While the Photoshop Express TOS is probably the result of a disconnect between Adobe's lawyers and, well, the real world; until the TOS are changed you might want hold off on uploading any images to Photoshop Express.

John Nack, Adobe's Senior Product Manager for Photoshop, reports that the Photoshop Express team has responded to questions about the license saying, “we reviewed the terms in context of your comments — and we agree that it currently implies things we would never do with the content.”

The relevant section of the Photoshop Express TOS states:

8 Use of Your Content. Adobe does not claim ownership of Your Content. However, with respect to Your Content that you submit or make available for inclusion on publicly accessible areas of the Services, you grant Adobe a worldwide, royalty-free, nonexclusive, perpetual, irrevocable, and fully sublicensable license to use, distribute, derive revenue or other remuneration from, reproduce, modify, adapt, publish, translate, publicly perform and publicly display such Content (in whole or in part) and to incorporate such Content into other Materials or works in any format or medium now known or later developed.

The response Nack received goes on to say that the Adobe legal team is “making it a priority to post revised terms that are more appropriate for Photoshop Express users.”

We certainly hope that the legal team makes that a top priority since without a more acceptable TOS, Photoshop Express is going to be dead in the water.

See Also:

Adobe Photoshop Express Puts the Power of Photoshop Online

Another Tantalizing Peek At Photoshop Express

Adobe Shows Off Online Version Of Photoshop

Picasa Gains Mapping Features, Goes Mobile

Who Needs Photoshop? Flickr Debuts Online Image Editor

FotoFlexer Tricks Out Online Photo Editing With Desktop-Style Tools

Generative AI Has a 'Shoplifting' Problem. This Startup CEO Has a Plan to Fix It

Bill Gross’ ProRata, which has struck deals with partners like Time and Universal Music Group, has a strategy for making AI powerhouses pay for content.

Election Deniers Are Ramping Up Efforts to Disenfranchise Voters

After working for months to challenge thousands of voter registrations, election denial groups are now pushing ahead with plans to challenge voters and votes ahead of the election.

Class Action Lawsuit Alleges T-Mobile Broke Its Lifetime Price Guarantee

Customers of the uncarrier want T-Mobile to pay up after switching their legacy phone plans for something more expensive.

The 30 Best Mac Apps That Will Make Your Life Easier

Savor the sweet taste of these third-party Mac apps for better editing, organization, journaling, and more.

The ACLU Fights for Your Constitutional Right to Make Deepfakes

States across the US are seeking to criminalize certain uses of AI-generated content. Civil rights groups are pushing back, arguing that some of these new laws conflict with the First Amendment.

A Senate Bill Would Radically Improve Voting Machine Security

This year’s Intelligence Authorization Act would mandate penetration testing for federally certified voting machines and allow independent researchers to work on exposing vulnerabilities.

Zombie Alt-Weeklies Are Stuffed With AI Slop About OnlyFans

Beloved alt-weeklies like the Village Voice have started publishing what appears to be AI-generated clickbait about OnlyFans.

Video Game Performers Are Going on Strike Over AI

The union representing the voice and motion-capture actors who work in video games authorized the strike after talks with gaming companies stalled over the use of AI.