Developed by Adobe Inc, the Lightroom software lets you make, edit, and share stunning photos.

Powered by super-smart AI technology and machine learning, Lighthouse can do amazing things. It does all the basics well: red-eye corrections, tonal curves, sharpening, noise reduction, and more.

Adobe Bridge is another leading photo management software.

This photo organizing software lets you categorize, edit, preview, and publish many creative assets effortlessly. It’s the perfect photo management software if you are already using other Adobe Creative Cloud programs.

Magix Photo Manager is a free beginner-friendly photo management tool.

You can use it to sort, edit, and catalog your photos or videos. It brings all your photos and videos under one roof for easy management.

Next up in the photo management software list is Movavi.

Movavi helps you manage your entire photo collection. They support many file formats professional photographers use such as RAW, JPEG, PNG, and more.

Google Photos is a free photo management software that’s part of the Google suite of tools.

Photos you upload to the Google photos app cloud storage count towards the free 15GB storage that comes with every Google account. Packed with smart AI tools, Google Photos is the home for all your photos and videos.

Let’s now look at ACDSee Photo Studio, another respected photo management app.

If you are a professional photographer, ACDSee is an able companion. The software takes your photography, photo organization, and optimization a few notches up.

Whenever there’s talk of photo organizers, Picajet is usually part of the discussion.

Picajet performs batch image renames, does digital asset management, imports photos from cameras, and resizes your images without loss of quality.

Corel Aftershot 3 is the fastest photo management software for editing raw files.

It’s up to 4x faster than Adobe Lightroom. It unleashes your creative potential and saves you time with a super-fast photo editing workflow.

StudioLine Photo Basic 4 is an advanced image management tool.

This photo editor helps you edit, manage, archive, and share your photos easily on social media. Many people give StudioLine 5-start ratings in terms of ease to use.

Living in Portugal with my wife and puppies.

Scaling online businesses and sharing lessons learned on this website and in our email newsletter.

Always happy to hear from you, so find me on Instagram if you want to say hi!