The Sparrow

Sep-1996

/ Science Fiction

A visionary work that combines speculative fiction with deep philosophical inquiry, The Sparrow tells the story of a charismatic Jesuit priest and linguist, Emilio Sandoz, who leads a scientific mission entrusted with a profound task: to make first c...

Children of God

Mar-1998

/ Science Fiction

In Children of God, Mary Doria Russell further establishes herself as one of the most innovative, entertaining and philosophically provocative novelists writing today.The only member of the original mission to the planet Rakhat to return to Eart...

A Thread of Grace

Feb-2005

/ General Fiction

NEW YORK TIMES BESTSELLER • “A powerfully imagined novel . . . [a] profoundly moving book that engages the heights and depths of human experience.” -- Los Angeles TimesIt is September 8, 1943, and fourteen-year-old Claudette Blum and her f...

Dreamers of the Day

Mar-2008

/ Historical

"I suppose I ought to warn you at the outset that my present circumstances are puzzling, even to me. Nevertheless, I am sure of this much: My little story has become your history. You won't really understand your times until you understand mine." ...

Doc

May-2011

/ Historical

The year is 1878, peak of the Texas cattle trade. The place is Dodge City, Kansas, a saloon-filled cow town jammed with liquored-up adolescent cowboys and young Irish hookers. Violence is random and routine, but when the burned body of a mixed-blood ...

Epitaph

Mar-2015

/ Historical

Mary Doria Russell, the bestselling, award-winning author of The Sparrow, returns with Epitaph. An American Iliad, this richly detailed and meticulously researched historical novel continues the story she began in Doc, following Wyatt Earp and Doc Ho...

The Women of the Copper Country

Aug-2019

/ Historical

From the bestselling and award-winning author of The Sparrow comes an inspiring historical novel about “America’s Joan of Arc” Annie Clements -- the courageous woman who started a rebellion by leading a strike against the largest copper mining ...