Cataclysmic disaster and apocalyptic doom, as foretold by Hollywood, have a way of bringing together broken families, revealing the unseen heroism of deadbeat dads and neatly disposing of their rivals.

This, too, is the micro-level drama of “2012,” the latest nihilistic disaster flick to revel in the destruction of the planet. John Cusack plays the castoff father (Jackson Curtis), a failed novelist getting by as a limo driver. We greet him as he rolls out of bed, spilling his copy of “Moby Dick” as he rushes out the door, disheveled and late for a camping trip with his kids.

His ex-wife, Kate (Amanda Peet), has shacked up with a plastic surgeon named Gordon Silberman (Tom McCarthy) who drives a Porsche, an obvious clue that we’re not meant to like him.

When the apocalypse comes, Gordon, for a time, proves quite useful as an amateur pilot. But it’s no spoiler to say Gordon is not long for this world — after all, he stands in the way of Jackson’s redemption.

The Curtis family may be our ground-level protagonists in “2012,” but the ground is shifting. Due to explosions on the sun, neutrinos (that old action movie villain) are heating up the earth’s core and will soon destabilize the planet’s crust, birthing volcanoes and shifting tectonics.

Hip to this development is government scientist Adrian Helmsley, played by the exceptional Chiwetel Ejiofor, whose gravity — best seen in 2002’s “Dirty Pretty Things” — elevates “2012.” He alerts the president’s chief of staff, Carl Anheuser (Oliver Platt), who quickly brings Helmsley to the president (Danny Glover, apparently filling in for Morgan Freeman).

The government secretly establishes what Anheuser calls “the most important timetable in the history of mankind” — a schedule for the most important and most wealthy to be evacuated in confidential arks.

The director of “2012,” Roland Emmerich, has destroyed the world before. His films include “The Day After Tomorrow,” “Independence Day” and “Godzilla.” He seems to enjoy nothing more than seeing the most famous monuments toppled.

The origins of the current rash of doomsday movies isn’t hard to decipher: Science has determined the earth won’t exist in its present state forever, and global warming may well expedite things. “2012” has no overt reference to environmental issues, but there’s a smack of familiarity when the scientists in the movie realize the planet’s destruction is coming faster than they predicted.

But “2012” is less interested in plausible truth than it is in blockbuster box-office. Publicity for the film has stoked interest in Dec. 21, 2012 as doomsday, a prediction often attributed to the Mayans, who foresaw the date as the end of a cycle, not of the planet.

As the destruction of “2012” spirals around the globe, one can’t help a quaking feeling watching the mayhem — especially in a theater cackling at its absurd cheesiness. And after the deaths of billions, interest in the fates of the Curtis family (who are eventually joined by a Russian family trying to make it to one of the arks) becomes laughable. Their narrow, sometimes belabored escapes carry less and less emotion — the audience knows they, themselves, are among the imagined dead.

The most grounded thing here is the acting. But in the end, it’s just another doomsday film, with new digital effects and stock scenes patched together from “Jaws,” “The Poseidon Adventure” and “Armageddon.”

And a long one at that. For too much of the 21/2-hour “2012,” the end is not near.