Nadezhda “Nadya” Tolokonnikova and Maria “Masha” Alyokhina - Pussy Riot - will be in talks at Cannes with the director of the films sequel.

Our newest feature salutes some of the great character actors with a primer on their greatest performances. In our first, we saluted the outstanding performances of recently deceased actor Bob Hoskins with Six Essential Performances. This week, a look at six brilliant, and sometimes overlooked roles of Oliver Platt.

This is what we get instead of music videos these days. Though it is good to see Scarface from Half Baked getting some work.

Gordon Willis, a cinematographer of the highest order, passed away this weekend at the age of 82.

The Guy from Parks and Rec is gonna be a huge Action movie star.

The X-Men go back in time to stop Don Draper from his own destruction.

Steve Carell appears in full prosthetics in the first clip from 'Foxcatcher', based on the true story wrestling coach John du Pont.

The Coen brothers next movie will be called "Hail Caesar" which is about a fixer in Hollywood in the 1950s who works for the studios to protect the stars of the day.

eady to see Rick Deckard again? Harrison Ford has been offered a chance to reprise his role in the sequel.

The sequel to "Spring Breakers" is going forward without the original writer and director, Harmony Korine and without its star James Franco.

Despite heavy marketing featuring Bryan Cranston in the Godzilla trailers, word is he's barely in the movie.

Oh Butterscotch stallion will you ever gallop into a film as good as Bottle Rocket again?

The new comedy movie from director Rob Reiner and starring Michael Douglas and Diane Keaton.

Starring Andy Serkis, Gary Oldman, Jason Clarke and Keri Russell.

Executive producers Will Ferrell and Adam McKay have an amazing idea for a new "Flintstones" movie for Warner Bros.

In this new version of "Private Benjamin", Rebel Wilson plays a redneck who joins the Marines to get out of a bad situation.

Don't worry fan boys. Lucas is out and Disney is in. Happy now?

Mars Blackmon coming to your house every week? Damn that's weird.

According to Harry's sources from Ain't Cool News, the new film is titled "Star Wars: The Ancient Fear".

Bernie Tiede, the murderer and inspiration for the 2011 Richard Linklater film 'Bernie' will be released from prison on the condition that he live in Linklater's garage apartment in Austin, Texas.

Russian President Vladimir Putin has signed legislation that makes it illegal to have any swearing in films, TV shows, plays and concerts. “The Wolf of Wall […]

Just imagine. Four great characters from one of the most beloved scifi/fantasy franchises of all time– Star Wars– are all on one ship: Han Solo, Luke Skywalker, Princess Leia and Darth Vadar.

J.J. Abrams and Lawrence Kasdan celebrate Star Wars Day with a video so dull it will give you concern for the next Star Wars.

The new dark comedy movie starring Toni Collette, Pierce Brosnan, Aaron Paul, Imogen Poots and Sam Neill.

Baz sees it as one man's journey to become unfuckable.

Could a film just implode from neurotic weirdness?