Sensitivity: Nope

Depth & Development: Somewhat Present

Accuracy: BIG Nope

Canon Status: Canon

Golden Kamuy is an ongoing manga series by Satoru Noda, originally published in 2014 and adapted into an anime in 2018. The plot takes place during the Russo-Japanese War in the early 20th century, following its protagonist, Saichi Sugimoto, and his quest to find a hidden wealth of gold. He is aided on his quest by Asirpa, a young Ainu girl, and a cast of various characters that make up the central group.

Kano Ienaga makes her debut around the 50th chapter of the manga, or around the end of the first season of the anime. Even upon her first appearance, Golden Kamuy has no pretenses about exactly what kind of character she is. Immediately, Kano is unfortunately revealed to represent one of the most damaging and objectionable stereotypes regarding transgender women. However, she seems to be a curious case of a character that starts out wholly negative and slowly develops a slightly more positive presence as the story goes on.

Luckily, the anime doesn’t deviate far from her portrayal in the manga so the following review will apply to both mediums where applicable.

Warning for discussions of serial murder (including real-life serial killers) and mentions of cannibalism.

Kano Ienaga is introduced as the proprietress of a hotel that a number of major characters find themselves at along their journey. She’s described as a mysterious beauty and quickly becomes the object of affection for multiple male characters. This attraction is short-lived, however, as it’s promptly revealed that Kano is not only a transgender woman, not only someone that a few of the characters once knew pre-transition, but also a serial killer who transitioned by killing and eating her victims in order to gain the parts of their bodies that she admires.

The anime accomplishes this reveal with a shot of her bloodied and bare-chested in the midst of a brutal murder, but the manga decides to go with a full-body shot complete with a shadowed view of her genitals.

It’s important to take a step back here and talk about exactly why this is bad. Really, really bad. The history of transgender women being represented in TV and movies has a dark tendency portray them as serial killers or sexual predators. Prominent examples of this include Psycho (1960), Silence of the Lambs (1991), and Sleepaway Camp (1983). All of these have included small addendums that the characters portrayed aren’t “really” transgender, but they are most certainly coded as trans women and are both shaped by, and continue to shape the public perception of transgender women. The notion that that real-life transgender women are dangerous and predatory is used constantly to deny them healthcare, protection, and basic human rights.

In 2012, GLAAD found that, in the 10 years prior, 21% of their catalogued transgender characters were cast as killers or villains. It’s likely that this statistic has mellowed in recent years due to a more socially aware media environment, but it’s still an unfortunately important part of the history of transgender representation.

As seen in Golden Kamuy, this trope continues to be somewhat pervasive. Kano takes explicit inspiration from two real-life serial killers. Her elaborate “murder hotel” fitted with traps and crawlspaces is a direct reference to H.H. Holmes, while her obsession with body parts is a more loose reference to Ed Gein. Neither of these men were transgender. There were arguments made in Gein’s case, but it’s become more apparent that Gein’s gender identity was a product of sensationalism and an excuse to devalue transgender lives (Initial psych evaluations on Gein revealed no issues with gender, but later ones attempted to manually implant the notion. If you can stomach it, there’s an interesting essay on the subject).

The big issue with Kano and other characters like her (Grell from Black Butler comes to mind.) is that their motivation for murdering is intrinsically linked to their transgender identity. In a perfect world, we could have characters who are killers and villains and also just happen to be transgender. However, when their villainy intersects completely with their transition, their portrayal hints at transgender women inherently being violent monsters. That the desire to be seen and treated as a woman is equally as salacious and obscene as murder.

Back to Kano, however. She initially attempts to kill all groups present, but thanks to the efforts of our heroes, Kano’s “murder hotel” collapses in a fire. She nearly dies, but is saved by another character and joins one of the major groups in the story as a relatively minor character for some time. Here, she is portrayed as a mature, feminine, and well put-together woman who also possesses considerable medical skills. The group she’s a part of is somewhat antagonistic towards the protagonists, but Kano herself isn’t depicted as outwardly evil from this point on, though she’s shown to still possess the same murderous urges for comedic effect.

Despite her identity presumably being fairly well-known, the other characters continue to refer to her as a woman. That said, she doesn’t play a very large role in the story. She appears intermittently, usually playing the role of a medic and aiding in the treatment of characters on both side of the struggle. It’s interesting to note that’s described as one of the best surgeons in Japan, if only due to her handling and dismembering of bodies.

As the story progresses, we do get small glimpses into Kano’s life and personality outside of her serial killing antics. We learn that she has a strong admiration for her mother and a genuine (non-creepy or sadistic) respect for mothers in general, so much so that she offers to deliver the child of another character. How this intersects with her own womanhood isn’t exactly shown.

This sort of development comes slightly too quickly and a little too late, however, as Kano’s character never goes anywhere subversive or interesting enough to justify the tropes present in her character. She makes a few contributions to the story large enough to be called impactful, but they’re always for the sake of other characters rather than herself. While my perception of her did soften somewhat in the later chapters compared to her introductory ones, I was left hoping for more. There are definitely things to like or appreciate about her character, but they’re largely overshadowed by the points in the story where she is most prominent.

I simply can’t endorse a character that unapologetically perpetuates the worst kind of stereotype.

While I am not wholly in favor of Kano Ienaga’s portrayal of Golden Kamuy, I don’t want this to come off as a denouncement of the manga or anime as a whole. The series still has a lot of positives, particularly by being one of the few prominent pieces of media to largely and respectfully feature the Ainu as prominent characters. To that end, it is extremely important and hopefully influential.

Final Score: 1.5 Shiraishi’s out of 5

The Golden Kamuy manga is currently serialized in Weekly Shonen Jump, with the anime produced by Geno Studio and licensed for release in North America by Crunchyroll.