BUY TICKETS

Join us for a special Veterans Day 100th Anniversary Screening

at the American Legion Hollywood Post 43 Theatre with Director Philip Kaufman In Person!

Monday, November 11 – 7:00 PM

THE RIGHT STUFF, 1983, Warner Bros., 193 min. Dir. Philip Kaufman. Sam Shepard, Scott Glenn, Ed Harris, Barbara Hershey, Dennis Quaid, Fred Ward and Jeff Goldblum head the stellar ensemble cast of THE RIGHT STUFF, which is based on Tom Wolfe’s best-selling book chronicling the exciting early years of the United States’ race to conquer the final frontier, and the daredevil test pilots who ultimately became the first Americans in space. A pre-screening conversation with director Philip Kaufman begins at 7:00 PM, moderated by Alan Rode.

The Legion Theatre

The newly renovated 482-seat Legion theater at Post 43 features state-of-the-art projection and sound systems along with traditional movie concessions, offering a historically convivial atmosphere. The building dates from 1929 and has been a favorite haunt of Hollywood luminaries including Clark Gable, Charlton Heston, Mickey Rooney, Gene Autry, Ronald Reagan, Stan Lee among many more. Today, Post 43 boasts nearly 1,200 Legion Family members made up of veterans, sons, and auxiliary.

American Legion Hollywood Post 43: 2035 N. Highland Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90068. Parking is available at Post 43 for $10 per car (limited number of spaces). Free parking is available across the street in the lot adjacent to the Hollywood Heritage Museum.

All the Right Stuff: The Artistry of Philip Kaufman

November 8 - 10 at the Aero Theatre

November 11 at the Legion Theatre

With a reputation as "the thinking person’s filmmaker," Philip Kaufman has created masterful work in a wide range of genres, including acclaimed big-screen versions of seemingly impossible-to-adapt literary works. The writer-director joins us in person at the Aero Theatre in Santa Monica with some of his best-known films including THE UNBEARABLE LIGHTNESS OF BEING, INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS and a special screening of THE RIGHT STUFF at the newly refurbished American Legion Post 43 theater on the 100th Anniversary of Veterans Day.