Last Updated on June 30, 2006 by Paulette Brown-Hinds

SACRAMENTO

Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger last week recognized African American administration appointees at the Capitol thanking them for their many contributions and service to the administration and to California. “I want to thank you all for your dedicated service in the administration and the many contributions you make for the people of California. You are all important members of my team.” The photo was taken last week on the East Steps of the State Capitol.

Notable Administration Officials Present Included: Timothy Alan Simon, Appointments Secretary for Governor Schwarzenegger: In January of 2006 Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger appointed Timothy as Appointments Secretary. As Appointments Secretary Timothy recommends over three thousand seven hundred appointments in California State Government. Previously, Timothy served as General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer of Global Crown Capital, LLC., a securities broker-dealer and registered investment advisor. He was also Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer for PreferredTrade, Inc, an online financial securities Broker. Timothy has held senior legal and compliance positions with major global financial institutions including Robertson Stephens, Bank of America and Wells Fargo. He is on the Adjunct Faculty of Golden Gate University School of Law and formerly University of California Hastings. Timothy teaches Securities Regulation and serves as an Advisor in the International Legal Studies Department. He is an active member of the community serving on several boards including, Catholic Charities/CYO of San Francisco, the African American Interest Free Loan Association, Saint Dominic’s Sacred Heart Megan Furth Academy of San Francisco and serves on the Executive Committee of the California State Republican Party. Timothy is an active Member of the Bar Association of California.

Vincent Brown, Chief Deputy Director of the California Department of Finance: Governor Schwarzenegger appointed Vincent Brown, as chief deputy director of the Department of Finance in December 2005. Most recently, Vince served as senior advisor to the director of the Department of Finance. Prior to that, Brown was chief operating officer for the Office of the State Controller. He served as deputy executive officer for operations and assistant executive officer for financial and administrative services at the California Public Employees’ Retirement System from 1995 to 2003. Brown’s experience also includes two years as chief of administrative services and assistant program budget manager for the Department of Finance.

Greta Wallace, Director of Child Support Services: Wallace was appointed director of Child Support Services in October 2004. Wallace has more than 13 years of experience practicing law within the Department of Social Services. She has served as an administrative law judge with the Department since 2002, conducting hearings on child support cases. Wallace served five years as assistant chief counsel providing legal advice on child and family program issues, as well as community care licensing. Prior to that, she served as staff counsel, senior staff counsel and supervising senior staff counsel for the Department. Wallace has also served as a member of the executive team of the Department of Alcohol and Drug Programs and as executive assistant to the undersecretary of the Health and Welfare Agency where she monitored legislation for the 11 departments within the Agency. Wallace is a member of the Jack and Jill National Association and the Sacramento Women’s Assistance Network.

Margaret Fortune, Director of Public Affairs Governor Schwarzenegger: Margaret serves as Governor Schwarzenegger’s Director of Public Affairs. As a member of his Administration, she comes to the Governor’s Office with over a decade of policy and government experience. Previously, Fortune served as a member and chair of the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing from 2001 – 2003. Her experience also includes two years as Assistant Secretary in the Office of the Secretary for Education. Fortune opened Sacramento High School as a charter school in 2003 and served as the founding superintendent of St. HOPE Public Schools a Sacramento-based K-12 charter school district serving 2,000 students. Fortune has served on several public boards and commissions including the California Children and Families Commission from 1999 to 2001.

Eddie Island, Regents of the University of California: Island was appointed to UC the Regents of the University of California in June 2005. Prior to his retirement in 1998, Island served as vice president and associate general counsel for McDonnell-Douglas Corporation where he led the law, intellectual property and governmental affairs departments throughout his tenure. Previously, he served as assistant general counsel for the Pacific Enterprises Corporation for 24 years where he handled issues related to both state and federal regulatory law. Island’s experience also includes service as a member and treasurer of the California Science Center Board and chairman of the McDonnell Douglas Corporation Employees Community Fund.

Preston DuFauchard, Commissioner of the Department of Corporations: Preston DuFauchard has practiced law, and been a leader in the San Francisco Bay Area legal community for the past 22 years. He began his legal career and became a partner with the law firm of Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison, where he was a civil trial attorney. He was also a partner at the Landels, Ripley & Diamond law firm. He practiced as in-house counsel for the Bank of America Corporation, where he was Assistant General Counsel and San Francisco Office Manager for the legal department. While at the Bank, he was responsible for substantial litigation matters, including a securities class action lawsuit that settled for over $490 million. Currently, he is consulting with the law firm of Calvo & Clark, a Guam based business law firm, with a San Francisco office that specializes in civil litigation. He was President of the Bar Association of San Francisco Endowment Fund, and has been a member of the Board of Directors of the Bar Association of San Francisco. He also served as President of the Barristers Club of San Francisco, which is the new lawyer division of the San Francisco Bar Association. Also, he has been a member of the Board for the San Francisco Legal Aid Society – Employment Law Center.

Dr. Jamillah Moore, Senior Vice Chancellor for California Community Colleges: Dr. Moore was appointed senior vice chancellor for California Community Colleges in December 2005. She previously served as the interim vice chancellor for governmental relations and external affairs since 2004. Prior to this, Moore was the director of governmental relations and legislation for the Los Angeles County Office of Education from 1998 to 2004 and was a legislative consultant for State Senator Teresa Hughes from 1997 to 1998.

Fabian Wesson, California Science Center Board: Wesson was appointed to the California Science Center Board by the Schwarzenegger Administration March 2006. She has been a member of the Board since 2001 and has served as vice president. Wesson has been a principal consultant to Assemblymember Mervyn Dymally since 2004 and was administrative director for First A.M.E. Church from 1998 to 2004.

Michael Lee, General Counsel for the Agricultural Labor Relations Board. Lee was appointed general counsel for the Agricultural Labor Relations Board in March 2006. He has served as a deputy attorney general in the Office of the Attorney General since 1988. Lee is currently assigned to the Correctional Law Section of the Civil Division and served as supervising deputy attorney general for the Division from 1996 to 2004. He has previously served as staff counsel for the Water Resources Control Board, the Secretary of State and the Agricultural Labor Relations Board.

Judge Victor Wright, Los Angeles County Superior Court: Wright was appointed to the Los Angeles County Superior Court February 2006. Wright served as a deputy county counsel in the Los Angeles County Counsel’s Office since 1993 and has held the position of principal deputy county counsel since 2003. He was previously an associate with the law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher from 1991 to 1993.

Judge Arlan Harrell, Fresno County Superior Court: Harrell was appointed by the Schwarzenegger Administration to the Fresno County Superior Court in May 2006. Harrell has served as a commissioner in the Fresno County Superior Court since 2003. Previously, he served as a deputy district attorney for the Fresno County District Attorney’s Office from 1994 to 2003 and an associate for the law firm of Lang, Richert & Patch from 1992 to 1994.