His priorities will be the promotion of Vedic culture, youth leadership philanthropy, education, health awareness and ritualizing humanitarian values for betterment of society.

New Delhi: On the appreciative recommendation of Dr. Murli Manohar Joshi (Former HRD Minister, Govt. of India), Shri Kalraj Mishra (Governor of Rajasthan), and Shri Rajeev Shukla (Former Union Minister, Govt. of India), Shri Santosh Shukla (Supreme Court Advocate) has been nominated as a President of International Brahmin Parliament recently. His tenure will be 05 years. This is one of the leading organizations that work on the promotion of Vedic culture, youth leadership philanthropy, education, health awareness and ritualizing humanitarian values for betterment of society. It works in 70 countries of all continents. Significantly, he is Chairman, South Asian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and President & CEO of the World Book of Records. Apart from this, he is also the President of All India Information Technology (AIITA) and Asiatic Liberal Multifarious Association (ALMA) that promotes the cause of education and humanity. He does social, cultural, educational activities in various States of India and Abroad. Shri Shukla is not just a trendsetter through drawing the horizons of change and evolvement, but is also a change-maker and thus entered the challenging battlefield of entrepreneurship at a very young age. With setting milestones on every stepping stone through his philanthropy and visionary aptitude, Shukla runs several ventures from Indo-UK contours in education, technology and quality control. He is a recipient of many felicitations and awards for his matchless contribution to society. President of International Brahmin Parliament hopes that under his potential and organizational acumen, the organization would surely spread the Vedic heritage of Indian culture and its philosophy through activities and other aspects of promotion and message of Vedic culture. Significantly, Shri Santosh Shukla had also served earlier the organization with the ablest leadership values. On this occasion, Shri Santosh Shukla was congratulated by, Dr. Murli Manohar Joshi (Former HRD Minister, Govt. of India), Shri Kalraj Mishra (Governor of Rajasthan), and Shri Rajeev Shukla (Former Union Minister, Govt. of India), and other dignitaries from international scenario.