Presentation on theme: "The states of the early Middle ages (VI-X centuries)."— Presentation transcript:

1 The states of the early Middle ages (VI-X centuries).

Lecture№ 6(2)

2 Brief contents: 1. Turkic Khaganate ( ) & West Turkic Khaganate ( ) 2. Turgesh khaganate( ) 3. State of Kharlukh’s ( ) 4. State of Kharakhanyds ( )

3 Empire of Turk khaganate

4 Successors of Turk heritage

5 Ancient ancestor of tuks

6 1. Turkic Khaganate (552-603) & West Turkic Khaganate(603-704)

The first mentions of Turks appeared in 542 year in the Chinese sources in which attacks tuzue (Turks) to China from northwest are described. Chinese considered Turks as descendants of hunnu tribes. In VI century the name “Turk” means union of the tribes which have been usual on Altai (mountains).

7 The early Turkic state - Turkic khaganate ( ) has arisen in 551 year when the leader of Turks Bumyn has accepted the title- khagan. The next khagan became the Kara-khagan ( ), then Mukan-khagan ( ), later Taspar-khagan ( ). In years Mukan-kagan has concluded the union with Iran against Eftalits, and they were defeated. Turkic kaganate began to dominate in Central Asia. Then Turks have concluded the union with Byzantium against Persians and Persians have undertaken to pay a tribute.

8 In 587 y. Turks hade possessed of the Central Asia and became masters of Great Silk Road.

9 General directions of Great Silk road

10 The general good of GSR

11 Pressure from the outside, and social contradictions inside the country have weakened Turkic khaganate, and in 603 year it was divided into two independent states: East - Central - Asian and Western - Central Asian khaganats.

12 West Turkic Khaganate (603-704)

West-Turkic khaganate ( ) became a “State of ten tribes” (the self-name On Ok Eli- the state of ten darts). Capital and the khagan’s winter rate was the city of Suyab in Chu valley (near Tokmak), and summer residence – Mingbulak (near Turkistan).

13 West -Turkic khaganate was the state with the advanced city and agricultural culture, prospering trade on the Great Silk way. In VI-VII c. in valleys of the rivers Talas, Chu, Ili have arisen 10 cities and fortresses.

14 In years khaganate has lost the Central Asian possession to the west from Syr-Darya, the state has entered a strip of crisis which main reason were pressure from the outside and struggle for authority of the tribal unions. In Semirechie the Chinese armies have intruded, in 657 year the home guard “to ten darts”was defeated.

15 2. Turgesh khaganate( ) Turgeshs are numerous tribes. Uch-Elik is founder of state. The main headquarters was in Suyab city, and then it was transferred to Taraz. Turgesh khaganate has become stronger at a board of Suluk-khagan. Big danger for Turgeshs proceeded from Arabs who in every possible way tried to decline Suluk on their side, but he successfully struggled against them, for what Arabs have nicknamed him Abu Muzahim (Butting).

16 Ancient Taraz city.

17 In the middle of VIII century interests of Chinese and Arabs for the influence in this region has resulted to Тalas battle in July of 751 year on Talas river near Taraz city (Talas battle) have extraordinary sharply collided.

18 The main role in route of Chinese have played Karluks, unexpectedly put to them impact rear. This battle was of great importance, it has for a long time put an end to attempts of China to interfere with affairs of this region, on the other hand, it has strengthened influence here Arabs. In 756 year Turgesh khaganate was disintegrated.

19 3. State of Kharlukh’s (756-940)

It was union by the Karluk’s state – Karluk khaganate ( ) with the headquarters in Suyab. In 766 Kharlukh zhabgu (supreme title of kharlukh governor , exercising their power in Zheysu, led the fighting against the Arabs.

20 Arabs could rule only some parts of Southern Kazakhstan belonging to caliphate.

21 Results of Arabic conquests:

New state religion -Islam Use of Arabic language & writing Development of new architectural style Development of science, literature in Arabic language

22

23 4. State of Kharakhanyds (942-1210)

The ancestor of a dynasty was Satuk Bogra khan ( ) who in 942 year has declared itself as a khagan. This state of Turkic tribes occupied territory of Semirechiem and the headquarters in Balasagun city.

24 In due course their possession has extended from Amu -Darya and Syr-Darya up to Kashgar. Then state have broken up to two parts – eastern and western – Maverannakhr-(territory between Amu -Darya and Syr –Darya) with center in Samarkand. Satuk-Bogra khan in 955 year has declared Islam as state religion and in 960 year in Semirechie, 200 thousand tents have accepted Islam

25

26 Bukhara city is heritage of Kharakhanyd dynasty