Founded in 2003, the Regent University College of Science and Technology is a private higher education institution located in the urban setting of the metropolis of Accra (population range of 1,000,000-5,000,000 inhabitants), Greater Accra. Officially recognized by the Ghana Tertiary Education Commission, Regent University College of Science and Technology (RUCST) is a small-sized (uniRank enrollment range: 2,000-2,999 students) coeducational Ghanaian higher education institution formally affiliated with the Christian-Evangelical religion. Regent University College of Science and Technology (RUCST) offers courses and programs leading to officially recognized higher education degrees such as pre-bachelor's degrees (i.e. certificates, diplomas, associate or foundation), bachelor's degrees and doctorate degrees in several areas of study. See the uniRank degree levels and areas of study table below for further details. This 21-year-old Ghanaian higher-education institution has a selective admission policy based on entrance examinations and students' past academic records and grades. International students are welcome to apply for enrollment. RUCST also provides several academic and non-academic facilities and services to students including a library, as well as administrative services.

Gender Admission

This institution admits Men and Women (coed).

Admission Selection

Has Regent University College of Science and Technology a selective admission policy? Yes, based on entrance examinations and students' past academic records and grades.

Admission Rate

Regent University College of Science and Technology's acceptance rate range is not reported.

Student Enrollment

Regent University College of Science and Technology has an enrollment range of 2,000-2,999 students making it a small-sized institution.

Academic Staff

This institution has a range of 200-299 academic employees (Faculty).

Control Type

Regent University College of Science and Technology is a private higher education institution.

Entity Type

Not reported