They're the gorgeous couple with a picture-perfect family.

But according to Woman's Day, 33-year-old Chris Hemsworth's marriage to Spanish actress Elsa Pataky is on the verge of breakdown, with the pair spending time apart.

'They've decided they need space, and they've been taking a little break from each other,' claimed the magazine's source.

Scroll down for video

Elsa, 40, jetted off to her native Spain last month along with the couple's children - India, four, and two-year-old twins Tristan and Sasha - to spend time with friends while Chris was in Brisbane and the Gold Coast filming his new Thor movie.

But the trip raised eyebrows with the pair's friends, with the source adding: 'He's [Chris] away again in November, so you might think Elsa would want to be there to spend every moment with him, not go away without him.'

The report adds that Elsa's absence during Chris' recent outing at the AFL grand final game with his brother Liam and their parents Craig and Leonie fueled speculation of trouble in paradise.

Meanwhile, the Fast & Furious actress has been leaning on her brother Cristian Prieto for support.

The petite blonde recently shared a sibling snap via Instagram, captioning it: 'I smile because you are my BROTHER, I laugh because there is nothing you can do about it!'

Furthermore, Woman's Day's source adds Chris' rushed decision to settle down and marry when he was 27 could be part of the reason for the couple's 'issues'.

The Thor star wasted no time putting the rumours to rest, sharing a snap of the happy couple along with a tongue-in-cheek statement.

'Looking for a new wife according to @womansdayaus and other misleading outlets! Honey you still love me right?! @elsapatakyconfidential #thanksfortheheadsup (sic),' Chris shared alongside a photo of him and Elsa enjoying a cruise on Monday.

Also, a glance at the couple's social media accounts show there's nothing but love between the genetically-blessed couple.

Elsa and Chris recently spent a kids-free break away at Hamilton Island's exclusive Qualia resort, where they flaunted their romance in postcard-worthy Instagram photos.

The actress melted hearts when she shared a snap of her handsome husband falling asleep during a flight with two of their children in his arms.

'Nothing better than sleeping in papa's arms!' Elsa wrote alongside the sweet family photo.

Chris and Elsa met in early 2010 and married shortly after in December that year.

They welcomed their daughter India in 2012 and their twin sons later in 2014.