As one of the four co-chairs of tonight's Met Gala, Chris Hemsworth was an early arrival on the green carpet. He and his wife, Elsa Pataky, were photographed wearing coordinating neutral outfits. Hemsworth accessorized with Chopard jewelry.

While fans may know Chris Hemsworth from his role as Thor in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, fashion watchers may be less familiar with Elsa Pataky, his wife. Here, five things to know about her:

1. She was born and raised in Spain.

Pataky was born Elsa Lafuente Medianu in Madrid, Spain, the only daughter of José Francisco Lafuente and Cristina Medianu Pataky. She uses her mother's last name professionally.

2. Pataky studied journalism in college.

She attended the Universidad CEU San Pablo, a private Catholic university in Madrid. Pataky is reportedly fluent in five languages: Spanish, English, French, Romanian, and Italian.

3. She is an actress and model.

Pataky made her acting debut in Al Salir de Clase, a Spanish television series, in 1997, and went on to star in a series of Spanish shows and films. In 2011, she appeared in Fast Five as Elena Neves, a Rio de Janiero police officer, and then appeared in subsequent Fast & Furious films. Her most recent star role was in Netflix action film Interceptor.

4. Hemsworth and Pataky met in 2010, and got married the same year.

"We did everything very quickly—I don’t know how we survived as a couple," Pataky said in 2018. "We were married and then a year after we had kids. It puts a lot of pressure on a marriage, but we came out good because there is a lot of love between us and we are very strong personalities but love each other so much. We make it work." She added, "In the beginning it was beautiful—when I met him he wasn’t known at all and I grew with him and experienced all his successes and changes, and then he became just so huge and I’ve been sharing that too."

5. She's a mom of three.

Pataky and Hemsworth have three children: daughter India Rose (b. 2012) and twins Tristan and Sasha (b. 2014). They brought their twins to the Australian premiere of Furiosa: A Mad Max Saga last week:

You Might Also Like