The Television Academy today named basketball legend and philanthropist Kobe Bryant as the recipient of the 72nd Los Angeles Area Emmy Governors Award, selected by the Los Angeles Area Governors Award committee and recognizing his legacy of philanthropy, community building and inspiration that extended beyond the basketball court.

The award is presented to an individual, company or organization that has made an outstanding, innovative and visionary achievement in the arts, sciences or management of television as well as a substantial contribution to the greater Los Angeles area.

Bryant, nominated for the posthumous honor by Spectrum SportsNet, was a legendary fixture on Southern California television screens for over 20 years, the subject of tens of thousands of sports highlights during five Lakers championships, 18 All-Star appearances and two Olympic games.

Following his storied NBA career, Bryant continued to inspire others with his passion, purpose and goodwill through countless charitable contributions in the greater Los Angeles and Southern California communities. He championed a number of worthy causes and critical issues, becoming an ambassador for women's basketball, a mentor and youth advocate, and raised awareness of homelessness in Los Angeles.

The Los Angeles Area Governors Award will be presented during the 72nd Los Angeles Area Emmy Awards streaming Saturday evening, July 18, 2020, at 7 p.m. (PDT) on Emmys.com.

About the Television Academy

The Television Academy seeks to expand the horizons of television excellence. Through the programs, publications and events of the Academy and its Foundation, it strives to empower storytellers who shape the evolving television space. And it celebrates those who have excelled by recognizing their achievements through accolades and awards, including television's most coveted prize, the Emmy Award. For more information, please visit TelevisionAcademy.com.

###

Stephanie Goodell

breakwhitelight (for the Television Academy)

Stephanie@breakwhitelight.com

818.462.1150

For the complete .