The 2019 World Series Champion Washington Nationals are in action every spring and summer with an exciting schedule, plenty of home runs and, of course, Racing Presidents.

Before we dive in, a special discount: Make sure to use the code VISITDC for up to 20% off single-game tickets.

The History of the Washington Nationals

After a 33-year absence, Major League Baseball in Washington was revived with the arrival of the Nationals in 2005. The Nats played their first three seasons at RFK Stadium before moving into Nationals Park, a state-of-the-art facility in the bustling Capitol Riverfront neighborhood, in 2008.

Upon assuming the job in 2009, general manager and president of baseball operations Mike Rizzo didn’t set out to win a few games; he set out to build a winning culture that brought competitive baseball to DC’s Navy Yard neighborhood every spring, summer and fall, year in and year out.

From 2012-19, the Nats won four division titles, made five Postseason appearances and went on a scintillating run to a 2019 World Series championship, the first in franchise history and the first World Series title for DC since 1924. Catch a game and cheer on the up-and-coming stars looking to ignite the next World Series run in the nation's capital.

The Nationals Experience

Washington Nationals

Nationals Park is located on the bustling Capitol Riverfront, one of the District's fastest-growing areas. Easily accessible from the Navy Yard-Ballpark Metro stop on the Green Line, the neighborhood provides many dining options for before and after the game. The Yards Park and Canal Park are both outdoor destinations, and each is within walking distance of the Navy Yard stop.

Nats Park is full of family-friendly promotions: Kids can run the bases on Sundays and get a special first-game certificate and pin. There are also tons of kid-friendly giveaways, including bobbleheads and kids' shoe charms, throughout the season. Kids 12 and under can also get a free meal during every home game this season.

When it comes to food, the stadium is one-of-a-kind. Enjoy a legendary chili dog from Ben’s Chili Bowl, a Washington institution, or watch the game comfortably from the Budweiser Brew House, a full-service restaurant within the stadium. Elsewhere in Nationals Park, diners can enjoy everything from saucy Shake Shack burgers to some fun new concessions like Ssongs Korean Hotdogs and Los Cinco Tacos. Check out our full guide of where to eat and drink in the park.

Washington Nationals

Don’t forget to catch the GEICO Presidents Race, which takes place during the fourth inning of every game, featuring oversized likenesses of “George” Washington, "Tom" Jefferson, “Abe” Lincoln and “Teddy” Roosevelt. They are joined by Screech the Eagle, waving the Nationals Curly W flag after victories in an epic display of Natitude.

Washington Nationals

Make sure to gear up in your Nationals apparel, including championship-themed caps, jerseys and shirseys, at one of the Nationals Team Store locations.

Nationals Team Store

Note that backpacks and bags that exceed 16"x16"x8"are now prohibited inside Nationals Park. Make sure to read the full Nationals bag policy before heading to the game.

Nationals Park is also the first major professional stadium to be LEED Silver Certified by the U.S. Green Building Council, using numerous sustainable elements to provide the most environmentally conscious experience.