The global pool & spa market is expected to reach USD 23.6 billion by 2027 from an estimated USD 19.1 billion in 2022, at a CAGR of 4.3% from 2022 to 2027. A pool is a structure designed to hold water to enable swimming or other leisure activities. It is mostly constructed from materials such as concrete, plastic, or fiberglass and can be of a custom size and shape or built to a standardized size. Hot tubs and spas are pools filled with water that is heated and then used for relaxation or hydrotherapy. Commercial spas are common in the pool or sauna area of a health club or fitness center. The global pool & spa market is expected to witness significant growth during the forecast period. Growth in residential and commercial construction activities and sustained growth of luxury homes that generally install swimming pools are driving the market growth.

There are several types of pools & spas depending upon the size and users requirement. A few major players have a wide regional presence and dominate the pool & spa market. The leading players in the pool & spa market include Harvia Group (Finland), Pentair (US), Fluidra (Spain), KLAFS GmbH & Co. KG (Germany), TyloHelo (Sweden).

To know about the assumptions considered for the study download the pdf brochure

Product launches are among the key growth strategies adopted by leading companies such as Harvia Group (Finland), Pentair (US), Fluidra (Spain), KLAFS GmbH & Co. KG (Germany), TyloHelo (Sweden) to boost their position in the pool & spa market. Companies operating in this market also focus on partnerships, sales contracts, agreements, product launches, acquisitions, contracts, expansions, and investments to increase their market shares and expand their geographic presence.

Pentair is a global provider of smart and sustainable water solutions to homes, business, and industry around the world. Pentair is comprised of two reportable business segments: Consumer Solutions and Industrial & Flow Technologies. The Consumer Solutions segment designs, manufactures and sells energy-efficient residential and commercial pool equipment and accessories, and commercial and residential water treatment products and systems. Residential and commercial pool equipment and accessories include pumps, filters, heaters, lights, automatic controls, automatic cleaners, maintenance equipment and pool accessories. Applications for pool business’s products include residential and commercial pool maintenance, repair, renovation, service, and construction. The brand names under Consumer Solutions include Everpure, Ken’s Beverage, Kreepy Krauly, Pentair Water Solutions, Pleatco, RainSoft and Sta-Rite. The Industrial & Flow Technologies segment manufactures and sells a variety of fluid treatment products (advanced membrane filtration, separation systems, membrane bioreactors), pumps (water supply pumps, water disposal pumps, solid handling pumps, fluid transfer pumps, turbine pumps), valves, and spray nozzles as well as systems combining these products (process filtration systems, gas recovery solutions), that serves the global residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural and infrastructure verticals. The significant investments in R&D helped the company to establish a significant market position.

Fluidra is a global leader in the Pool and Wellness sector and has vast experience developing, producing, distributing, and marketing innovative products and services for the residential and commercial pool sector on a global scale. The portfolio includes brands such as Jandy, AstralPool, Polaris, Cepex, Zodiac, CTX Professional and Gre. Flurida runs its business in two product lines namely Pool & Wellness and Irrigation, Industrial and Others. Fluidra’s core business unit is Pool & Wellness. The Fluidra Group is responsible for manufacturing and distributing practically all the components necessary for the construction, renovation, improvement, and maintenance of residential and commercial pools. The business is organized into three main geographical areas such as EMEA, North America, and APAC. The company is investing in increased production capacity to meet anticipated demand and is expected to leverage strategic synergies from new brands added in 2021 through integration and leveraging collective strengths to grow aggressively in new segments such as water testing, spa and commercial.

Related Reports:

Pool & Spa Market by Type (Pools - Lap, Wading, Heated; Spas - Electric, Steam, Sauna, Hydromassage Bath), Accessories (Filters, Chlorinators, Blowers, Cleaners, Covers, Suction Fittings, Pumps), Material and Region - Global Forecast to 2027