Sidharth Malhotra

Born: January 16, 1985 (Delhi, India)

The fact he is dissatisfied with his modeling gigs Sidharth Malhotra, who was born in Delhi, wanted to work in Bollywood. Ironically, formerly the actor started working as an assistant director for Karan Johar, who was in the midst of filming his feature My Name Is Khan at the moment of his first appearance. A short while later, Johar cast the actor in his first starring part in the movie Student of the Year (2012), which also featured Alia Bhatt and Varun Dhawan, both of whom were making their screen debut debuts.

Sidharth's portrayal in his first film gained universal acclaim, and the actor has gone on to establish himself as among the most prominent performers of the younger breed since then. He has such a commanding presence on the screen that Saibal Chatterjee of NDTV compares him to the iconic Amitabh Bachchan. For example, the actor has performed cameos in movies like Hasee Toh Phasee (2014), Ek Villain (2014), and Kapoor and Sons (2009), to name a few of his credits (2016).

Early Life

Sidharth Malhotra was born in Delhi, India, on January 16, 1985, to a Punjabi family. In addition to being the son of Sunil, who used to work for the Indian Merchant Navy, his mother, Rimma, is also a homemaker. Additionally, he has an older brother, Harshad Malhotra, who is employed in the financial profession. He received his elementary and secondary schooling at Delhi's Don Bosco School and Birla Vidya Niketan before pursuing his studies at Bhagat Singh College in New Delhi. During his undergraduate years, Malhotra began taking on modeling gigs in order to supplement his financial situation. Soon after, he was discovered by a model coordinator, and he decided to pursue modeling as a full-time profession. The actor earned the Mr. Gujarat competition in 2007, finished second in the Gladrags Big supermodel and Manhunt tournament in 2007, and was voted Gladrags Face of the Year in 2009. In 2009, he was awarded Gladrags Face of the Year again. He has also featured in a number of ads on tv. Sidharth began modeling for major companies after winning a few beauty pageants. He has walked the runway for designers such as Roberto Cavalli and has been on the cover of Vogue India. He traveled a great deal, visiting cities such as New York, Milan, and Paris to participate in numerous fashion shows.

Even though no one knows the name of Siddharth's high school, he went on to study at the Shaheed Bhagat Singh College of Delhi University when he was 18 years old, at which time he also began modeling for magazines and newspapers. It had been completed. Sinha, on the other hand, had the picture shelved.

Personal Life

Speaking about Siddharth's personal life, he was very bright in his academics, and his parents wished for him to pursue a career as an engineer; nevertheless, he was more interested in athletics. Siddharth confesses that he enjoys drinking hot chocolate, for which he used to deceive his grandmother and steal money when he was a little boy. He used to mimic Shahrukh Khan's mannerisms while he was in school since he was a fan of the actor. Mr. Siddharth has a strong affinity for animals, which has led to his involvement with a number of non-governmental organizations (NGOs).

Sidharth is a straightforward person who prefers to maintain his distance from problems. However, reports of him being in a relationship with actresses have led to him being unwittingly embroiled in controversy on many occasions. He has extremely solid relationships with Bollywood stars and many close friends in the business, including his co-stars Varun Dhawan and Alia Bhatt, with whom he has worked on many projects.

When it comes to Siddharth's tastes and preferences, he enjoys eating home-cooked meals and desserts like Gulab Jamun and Jalebi. While he was schooling in his youth, he liked to eat chicken rolls while lounging at PVR Saket, Delhi, and it was the most memorable and favorite part of his life during that period.

In this voyage of Siddharth, his name was linked with practically all of his co-stars, with his proximity to Alia Bhatt being the most talked-about of them all. Sidharth has shown his mettle time and time again, and everybody was raving about his exemplary work. Some of his finest films will be released in the near future.

Career

Despite the fact that Sidharth Malhotra began modeling at the age of 18, acting was never his first choice of profession. Early in his modeling career, he understood that acting was the path for him. He co-starred with actor Rajat Tokas in the blockbuster television series Prithviraj Chauhan, which was shown on Zee TV. Following the signing of a contract with Anubhav Sinha's project, which was shelved in the middle of production, the actor began working as an assistant director in order to have a better understanding of the filmmaking process. As part of his contract with Gladrags, he was meant to star with Priyanka Chopra in the film Fashion (2008). The actor was, unfortunately, unable to take part in the production of the film. Following that, Sidharth served as assistant director on Karan Johar's movie. My name is Khan in 2010, which led to him gaining a role in Johar's follow-up film Student of the Year the following year. Many people were moved by his portrayal of Abhimanyu Singh, and he was honored with multiple prizes for his work in the film as well. His portrayal of a young striving entrepreneur in the film earned him critical acclaim and was well welcomed by the audience. In the same year, he co-starred with Shraddha Kapoor in Mohit Suri's romantic thriller Ek Villain, in which he portrayed the part of a violent offender.

Brothers, a replica of the Hollywood movie Warrior, was released in 2015, and the actor co-starred with Akshay Kumar in the movie. It was produced by Karan Malhotra. As part of his preparation for the role, Siddharth undertook intense martial arts instruction. The film Kapoor & Sons, directed by Shakun Batra and starring Alia Bhatt and Fawad Khan, earned positive reviews upon its release in 2016. Malhotra's portrayal in the film, which is about a crazy family, is also very well. His next role was opposite Katrina Kaif in the 2016 film Baar Baar Dekho, in which he played a Gentleman and an Ittefaq, which was directed by Nitya Mehra. Marjaavaan, directed by Milap Milan Zaveri, is one of the films that will be released the next year.

Net Worth

In 2022, Sidharth Malhotra's personal wealth in Indian rupees will be approximately 80 Crore, which is roughly $11 Million US. He is considered to be one of the top young actors in the Bollywood business, and he has a large following of fans. Sidharth Malhotra earns a salary of 60 lakh rupees each month. It is from Bollywood films that he derives the most of his income, and he commands a high fee for his appearances in them. Sidharth Malhotra's salary for a single film is 7 crore rupees.

A large portion of his income comes from brand sponsorships; being a prominent Bollywood actor, he receives a substantial amount of money from these endorsements. Each brand endorsement price that Sidharth Malhotra receives is three crore rupees. His other significant asset is his considerable investment, from which he earns a sizable income. With each passing year, he sees a growth in his net worth of almost 26%. Sidharth Malhotra earns a total of 9 crore rupees in a year.

Endorsement

Sidharth Malhotra is a younger emerging star in the Indian film business, and many companies are interested in having him as a brand ambassador for their products. In 2016, he was appointed as a brand ambassador for the New Zealand Tourism Board. The actor also serves as a brand ambassador for just a number of firms, such as "Belvedere Vodka," "Hoppits," "Ponds talcum powder," "Brylcream," and "Pepe Jeans," among others. 'Metro Shoes' is an abbreviation for "Metro Shoes." 'Coca-cola' and a few additional brands.

Cars

Sidharth Malhotra, among the most popular Bollywood stars, enjoys purchasing his desired vehicles and motorcycles, and he is the proud owner of a number of high-end automobiles. As a result, let's all remind you regarding Sidharth Malhotra's automobile collection. He has a Range Rover Vogue as his first automobile, which is the most costly vehicle in his garage. This high-end SUV cost him around 2.26 million Indian rupees.

Mercedes ML 350 CDI (number 2) 66.97 lakh rupees is the price of the automobile. Sidharth Malhotra also has a motorcycle, which he purchased for around 20.90 lakh rupees and is titled "Harley Davidson Fat Boy."

Quick Personal Details

Nickname Sid Age As of 2022, 37 Years Old Birth Place Delhi, India D.O.B January 16, 1985 Height 6.1 feet (185 Cm) Girlfriend Kiara Advani Mother Rimma Malhotra Father Sunil Malhotra Brother Harshad Malhotra Debut Film Student of the Year - 2022 Nationality Indian Religion Hinduism Marital Status Unmarried