Despite being awarded a special honor by the NAACP for his practice of civil rights cases in the 1970s and 80s, he has been recorded by news crews and private citizens on numerous occasions screaming racial expletives at crowds of blacks and civilians. Members of the NAACP have stated in recent years that Phelps would not have been given the award had they known that he was using the civil rights cases as a front for extortion crimes.

In 1994, a woman attempted to murder him by running him over in her car after he allegedly shouted sexual obscenities at her during a picket. Phelps declined to press charges when the Topeka district attorney informed him that doing so would be essentially admitting that he was guilty of inciting violence, and he himself would be arrested and tried.

After spending decades as one of the most prominent hate figures in the United States, he is believed to have undergone a complete reversal of his homophobic beliefs shortly before his death. According to Phelps' grandson and former church member Zach Phelps-Roper, Phelps was voted out of the church after undergoing a "change of heart" regarding his religious beliefs. Zach reported that Phelps had spoken in support of the members of Equality House across the road from the church, which was regarded as "rank blasphemy" by the church, and told Them that They were ''good people''.

In 1968, weighing nearly 300lbs, he was rushed to the hospital after overdosing on a cocktail of barbiturates, amphetamines, and alcohol. He remained in a coma for nearly a week; upon release from the hospital he placed himself on a stringent liquid diet and dropped to 135lbs in less than three months.

Featured in the June 11, 1951 issue of TIME magazine for his efforts to make kissing in public a criminal felony in Pasadena, California. His crusade came to an end after he was arrested for assaulting a police officer who informed him that he did not have permission to picket at John Muir University.

Has thirteen children, fifty-two grandchildren, and one great-grandchild. Except for four of his children (Dorothea, Kathy, Mark, and Nate), all of them are members of the Westboro Baptist Church, which is based in Topeka, Kansas.

Permanently disbarred from practicing law in 1987 for slander, libel, extortion, and harassment. The motion for Phelps' disbarment was signed by every federal judge in the state of Kansas. Phelps accepted disbarment on the grounds that none of his children, six of whom were also listed in the motion, would face the same fate; three of them (including Fred Jr. and Margie Phelps-Roper) were suspended for libel, slander, and harassment.

Part of a failed mission to convert Mormons in Vernal, Utah, with fellow students from Bob Jones University in 1947. After delivering a sermon condeming the Mormon religion, the mission leader was asked a theological question he did not know the answer to; Phelps responded by attacking the man who'd asked the question, resulting in a near riot.