Renee Zellweger will be starring in the TV adaptation of the bestselling James Patterson and Mike Lupica novel 12 Months To Live.

The Max legal thriller series, titled Jane Smith, will see Zellweger play a 'brilliant, tough, and darkly funny defense attorney' who learns she has a terminal brain tumor just before landing a massive case, according to Deadline.

Jane does not let the tragic diagnosis stop her from solving the case, even as the investigation enters dangerous and personal territory.

Zellweger, 55 - who has been filming the new Bridget Jones sequel Mad About The Boy in London as of late - will not only be leading the cast but she will also be serving as executive producer. Patterson is also among those executive producing the project.

Miki Johnson will be serving as showrunner and writer of the series. Johnson has previously worked on Ozark, Ray Donovan, and more recently, the Jake Gyllenhaal-led mini series Presumed Innocent.

According to Deadline, the fact the show has been titled 'Jane Smith' suggests producers are open to creating more installments based on the sequels.

The series comes less than a year after 12 Months To Live was published.

The novel was released on September 25, 2023. In less than a month, the sequel, Hard To Kill, will also be hitting bookshelves.

The plotline for 12 Months To Live reads: 'Tough-as-nails criminal defense attorney Jane Smith is hip-deep in the murder trial of the century.

'Actually, her charmless client might’ve committed several murders. She’s also fallen in love with a wonderful guy. And an equally wonderful dog, a mutt.

'But Jane doesn’t have much time. She’s just received a terminal diagnosis giving her twelve months. Unless she’s murdered before her expiration date.'

News of the upcoming role comes as Renee films the latest installment in the Bridget Jones franchise, Mad About The Boy, in London.

The movie is based on the novel of the same name as Bridget battles motherhood alone following the tragic death of Mark, who was played in the previous films by Colin Firth, 63.

She will also embark on a love affair with a much younger man named Rockstar, played by One Day star Leo Woodall, 27.

In the new film, Bridget enjoys a fling with Rockstar and PE teacher Mr Walker, as played by 12 Years A Slave actor Chiwetel Ejiofor as well as reviving her on-off relationship with Hugh Grant's Daniel Cleaver.

Renee first appeared as Bridget in 2001's Bridget Jones' Diary and returned in 2004's Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason and 2016's Bridget Jones' Baby.

The latest movie was officially confirmed in May, with Renée and Hugh Grant's comebacks made official - after his love rat character Daniel Cleaver's death was falsified in 2016's third installment.

The fourth movie in the franchise - based on the books by Helen Fielding - will be released by Universal film on US platform Peacock on Valentine's Day 2025 while internationally, the flick will be released in cinemas.