The latest "Bridget Jones" sequel, "Mad About The Boy," premieres on Peacock on February 14, 2025.

Renée Zellweger, Hugh Grant, and Emma Thompson are set to return, joined by Leo Woodall and Chiwetel Ejiofor.

Here's what to know about the movie, including why Colin Firth has not been cast.

Renée Zellweger, Hugh Grant, and Emma Thompson are returning to the "Bridget Jones" franchise for a fourth film — but won't be joined by fan-favorite Colin Firth.

Helen Fielding, the author of the "Bridget Jones" novels on which the movies are based, told RadioTimes in October 2022 that she was ready to adapt the third book in the series "Bridget Jones: Mad About the Boy."

On Tuesday, Deadline reported that the movie had found its director, Michael Morris, and its cast, and will be released on Peacock in the U.S. on Valentine's Day, 2025. Outside the US, the movie will premiere in theaters.

Zellweger and Grant, two of the franchise's leads, are set to return, but Firth has not been cast. That's because his character does not appear in the third book.

The "Bridget Jones" franchise, one of the biggest romcoms of the '00s, made $800 million at the box office, according to Box Office Mojo. The first movie, 2001's "Bridget Jones's Diary," is the most successful, earning $334 million and leading to Zellweger's first Oscar nomination for best lead actress.

Here's what to know about the cast and plot of "Bridget Jones: Mad About the Boy."

Spoilers ahead for "Bridget Jones: Mad About the Boy" and "Bridget Jones's Baby."

The main cast has been set for "Bridget Jones: Mad About The Boy."

Zellweger is reprising her role as the chaotic titular character, Bridget Jones.

Grant, who was absent in the third movie, "Bridget Jones's Baby," is returning as Jones' womanizing, cheating ex Daniel Cleaver. Although Cleaver was nearly killed off at the beginning of the third film in a plane crash, he survives his near-death experience.

The final returning actor is Emma Thompson, reprising her role as Jones' obstetrician-gynecologist, Dr. Rawlings, from the third film.

Deadline reported that Leo Woodall and Chiwetel Ejiofor, who both have rom-com experience, will also appear in the movie, but the roles have not been revealed.

Woodall was recently praised for his performance in the hit 2024 Netflix rom-com series "One Day," while, Ejiofor starred in the 2003 Christmas classic "Love Actually."

It is unclear if Patrick Dempsey, who played Jones' love interest in "Bridget Jones's Baby," will appear in the fourth film.

Colin Firth's character Mark Darcy is dead in the third 'Bridget Jones' book.

As fans will remember, "Bridget Jones's Baby" ends with Jones marrying Mark Darcy (Colin Firth) and raising their son, Billy.

But in the third book, "Bridget Jones: Mad About the Boy," the relationship ends in tragedy. The book starts four years after Darcy was killed by a landmine in Sudan while helping aid workers.

Jones is left to raise their two children — Darcy and Jones have a second child in the book series called Mabel — and face the world of dating again.

There has been no confirmation that the upcoming movie will follow this exact storyline, but Firth's absence suggests that the film is going in that direction.

'Bridget Jones: Mad About The Boy' sees Jones enter the modern world of dating

In the third book, Jones is in her 50s and grappling with online dating, Twitter, and sexting.

There are also two new male characters, including a hot 29-year-old who Jones dates. It's possible that Woodall, who is 27, may have been cast as this character — although some fans believe he could be play Jones' son.

There's also Billy's rugged PE teacher, Mr. Wallaker, who catches Jones in embarrassing situations, just like Darcy in the first "Bridget Jones" movie. In 2013, Fielding told USA Today Mr. Wallaker looked like Daniel Craig but was inspired by a real-life teacher named Andrew Wallaker. It's possible that Ejiofor could be playing this role.

Cleaver (Grant) doesn't appear in the book at all, but the makers could choose to weave him in as a third romantic interest. Cleaver and Jones now can relate to each other, after Cleaver's near-death experience and Jones' loss.