Fly or drive from Dodge Center to Madison

Map of distance from Dodge Center, MN to Madison, WI

Click here to show map

More trip calculations

Driving Time

Cost Of Driving

Reverse Distance

Halfway

Stopping Points

Hotels near Madison, WI

Flight Time

airports near Madison, WI

airlines flying to Madison, WI

Nonstop Flights

Time Difference

Distance from Dodge Center, MN to Madison, WI

The total driving distance from Dodge Center, MN to Madison, WI is 230 miles or 370 kilometers.

The total straight line flight distance from Dodge Center, MN to Madison, WI is 186 miles.

This is equivalent to 299 kilometers or 161 nautical miles.

Your trip begins in Dodge Center, Minnesota. It ends in Madison, Wisconsin.

Your flight direction from Dodge Center, MN to Madison, WI is East (110 degrees from North).

The distance calculator helps you figure out how far it is to get from Dodge Center, MN to Madison, WI. It does this by computing the straight line flying distance ("as the crow flies") and the driving distance if the route is drivable. It uses all this data to compute the total travel mileage.

Dodge Center, Minnesota

City: Dodge Center

State: Minnesota

Country: United States

Category: cities

Madison, Wisconsin

City: Madison

State: Wisconsin

Country: United States

Category: cities

Distance calculator

Travelmath helps you find distances based on actual road trip directions, or the straight line flight distance. You can get the distance between cities, airports, states, countries, or zip codes to figure out the best route to travel to your destination. Compare the results to the straight line distance to determine whether it's better to drive or fly. The database uses the latitude and longitude of each location to calculate distance using the great circle distance formula. The calculation is done using the Vincenty algorithm and the WGS84 ellipsoid model of the Earth, which is the same one used by most GPS receivers. This gives you the flying distance "as the crow flies." Find your flight distances quickly to estimate the number of frequent flyer miles you'll accumulate. Or ask how far is it between cities to solve your homework problems. You can lookup U.S. cities, or expand your search to get the world distance for international trips. You can also print out pages with a travel map.