25 October 1999

Press Release

SG/SM/7192

SECRETARY-GENERAL, AT TRIBUTE HONOURING MEMORY OF JULIUS NYERERE, SAYS NYERERE'S LIFE MIRRORED FATE OF ENTIRE AFRICAN CONTINENT

19991025

Following is Secretary-General Kofi Annan's statement at a tribute to the memory of Julius K. Nyerere, the founder and first President of the United Republic of Tanzania, who died on 14 October, delivered at Headquarters on 25 October:

We meet today to honour a father and founder of modern Africa. We meet in sorrow to rejoice at the accomplishments of a life that mirrored the fate of the entire continent of Africa -- from independence to maturity to wisdom.

Revered by Africans and people all over the world as a freedom fighter, a man of extraordinary integrity, courage and moral authority, as well as a widely respected and admired international statesman.

He was steadfast in his support of the liberation struggle in southern Africa and, thanks to him, Tanzania played a pivotal role as headquarters of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) Liberation Committee and as a front-line State. He was a passionate and eloquent advocate for Africa and for the entire developing world, as well as a friend and ally of the United Nations.

Above all, Mwalimu Nyerere, as the founding father of Tanzania, played a key role in promoting African independence, nation-building and unity, and his willingness to step down from office voluntarily after long service to his people should be a model to all leaders. Both before and after leaving office, he gave unstintingly of his strength and wisdom in the quest for African peace and freedom. Even in his last month, he worked tirelessly to bring peace to the troubled people of Burundi.

As succeeding generation will recall the life and legacy of Mwalimu Nyerere, they will pay tribute to man who united, rather than divided, people; who believed that harmony and not division would serve his people's interests; whose personal integrity became an example not only to his own people, but to his fellow leaders across the Continent; a man who led by example and inspiration, and not by force.

I was particularly saddened to hear of Mwalimu Nyerere's death because he was a beacon of inspiration to me and to entire generations of Africans dedicated to the betterment of our peoples and the liberation of their abilities. Mwalimu had friends and students all over the world.

I am proud to have counted myself among them, and I send my heartfelt condolences to his family and his people.

* *** *