SYDNEY: Actor John Meillon, who died

yesterday aged 55, was renowned for his por

trayal of the Australian larrikin. His most

recent roles included a knockabout bushie in

the blockbuster films Crocodile Dundee I and

II.

But friends and fellow actors shocked by

the news yesterday coloured in a larger pic

ture of Meillon's devotion to his art and his

ability to live his characters, be it comedy,

drama, tragedy.

Educated at Sydney Grammar School,

Meillon began acting at 11, gained experience

overseas, returned home to Australian Film

Institute awards, Logies and an OBE, chalk

ing up memorable appearances on stage and

screen.

Close friend Bill Gardner, mourning with

Meillon's fellow members at the Mosman

Rowing Gub on Sydney's North Shore, said

Meillon loved Paul Hogan's brash Dundee.

But he believed it was Meillon's role as a

solo father dealing with his young son's fatal

cancer in the movie, The Fourth Wish, which

he held dearest to his heart.

"He was very selective in the roles that he

did — he refused many because he did not

think they were good enough and money never

entered his head," Mr Gardner said.

Meillon's other noted films included Sun

downers and Picture Show Man.

His agent Bill Shanahan said last night he

had no details of the actor's death.

The cause of death is not yet known.

Meillon's second wife Bunny Gibson was

last night flying back from London where she

was visiting family after Meillon had accom

panied her on a trip to Hong Kong.

His first wife was actress June Salter. He

leaves a son, John Meillon junior.

At Meillon's other favourite watering hole,

the Oaks Hotel at Neutral Bay, manager Ben

Spencer said the actor's wit and generous

nature would be sadly missed.

Meillon's health had deteriorated over the

past 12 months and he had become quiet and

introspective, Mr Spencer said.

"Up until then, he had a cutting wit and a

strong satirical manner.''

The actor had already been immortalised

with his own John Meillon Bar at the Oaks,

he said, and hnd long held a permanently

reserved table looking out to an oak tree.

Actor Noel Ferrier lauded Meillon as one of

Australia's greatest actors.

"I was always a bit in awe of Meillon

because he was one of those actors . . . that

when he gets on stage or when he gets in front

of a camera, you never felt he was acting," he

said.

"He just was the character. He had a pecu

liar genius which very few actors present."