Tiverton Francis Frank Tavares, 73 of Tiverton and formerly of Warren, died unexpectedly on Wednesday July 15 2020 at his home in Tiverton.

He was the husband of Judi (Brimmer) Tavares for over 55 years.

Frank was born in Fall River, MA the son of the late Frank and Mary (Sylvia) Tavares and the Step son of James Lima of Bristol.

He was a Veteran of the US Army National Guard.

Frank was a graduate of the RI Municipal Police Training Academy. He was a Police Officer for the Town of Warren Police Department for over 14 years, before retiring. While serving on the police department he was a K-9 officer for few years.

He had also worked for the Warren Highway Department for over 10 years before transferring to the Police Dept.

He was also the Emergency Management Director for the Town of Warren, and a member of the Warren Rescue.

Frank drove his six wheeler for Narragansett Improvement and was a machine operator for DaPontes Landscaping.

He was a member of the American Legion, the Elks, the Blue Knights, Warren F.O.P. Lodge.

Frank was also a Drum Major for the Royal Lancers.

He was a member of the Bristol County Street Rods Association.

Besides his wife and stepfather, Frank is survived by his daughters Anita Halko and Ted Young of Warwick, Dawn Ahrendt and her husband Scott of St. Johns, Florida and Miki Toner and her husband Scott of Tiverton .

Frank his also survived by his dog Fred.

He was the brother of Richard Rit Tavares of Bristol.

Frank was the grandfather of Courtney Toler, Matthew Ahrendt, and Brady Toner.

He was also survived by many nieces and nephews.

Calling hours for Frank will be held Friday July 17, 2020 from 4:00 7:00 pm in the SMITH FUNERAL and MEMORIAL SERVICES, with a Prayer Service at 6:30 pm.

Relatives and friends are invited to attend.

Due to current COVID -19 restrictions, all guests must wear a mask/face covering .

Also a Celebration of his life Service will be held at a later date.

In lieu of flowers, gifts in his memory may be made to the American Cancer Society, 931 Jefferson Blvd STE 3004, Warwick, RI 02886, would be appreciated.

www.wjsmithfh.com