Movie finder Release calendar New releases Coming soon Reviews User reviews Search

Directed by Tim Roth

The War Zone 1999

R

98 MIN

Overview Releases Reviews Cast crew Movie Codes Products News Forum

Drama

Release dateCountry UK LanguageEnglish Runtime98 minRatedRTechnical details 2.39:1

Movie plot tags

As unflinching and bleak as it is beautiful, Tim Roth's directorial debut The War Zone is remarkably accomplished filmmaking. Adapted by Alexander Stuart from his own novel, the film centres on a family that has just moved from London to the wind-swept seaside during winter. The relative isolation soon reveals an ongoing incestuous relationship between the working-class father (Ray Winstone) and his 17-year-old-daughter, Jessie. The middle-class mother (Tilda Swinton) has just given birth to their third child and desperately avoids knowing the truth, leaving Tom, the younger brother, with the ...(more)

As unflinching and bleak as it is beautiful, Tim Roth's directorial debut The War Zone is remarkably accomplished filmmaking. Adapted by Alexander Stuart from his own novel, the film centres on a family that has just moved from London to the wind-swept seaside during winter. The relative isolation soon reveals an ongoing incestuous relationship between the working-class father (Ray Winstone) and his 17-year-old-daughter, Jessie. The middle-class mother (Tilda Swinton) has just given birth to their third child and desperately avoids knowing the truth, leaving Tom, the younger brother, with the horrific responsibility of exposing the family secret. (less)

Director: Tim Roth

Writer: Alexander Stuart

Starring: Ray Winstone, Tilda Swinton, Colin Farrell, Kate Ashfield, Annabelle Apsion, Lara Belmont

Producers: Dixie Linder, Sarah Radclyffe, Eric Abraham, Steve Butterworth

» See full cast & crew

3

fans

83

DVD

collections

1

iTunes

collections

Similar titles you might also like

What is this?

Use the thumbs up and thumbs down icons to agree or disagree that the title is similar to The War Zone. You can also suggest completely new similar titles to The War Zone in the search box below.

Show more titles »« Show less titles

Similar titles suggested by members

+1