Shakira is bringing her Las Mujeres Ya No Lloran World Tour to Footprint Center in downtown Phoenix on Thursday, Nov. 7, 2024.

Promoted by Live Nation, the tour’s first leg features 14 arena shows across North America kicking off Nov. 2 in Palm Desert, California, with stops in Los Angeles, Miami, Toronto, Brooklyn, Chicago and more.

Known for her high-energy performances, Shakira will perform tracks from her new album and her catalog of hits.

Shakira hinted at the tour while appearing on “The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon" last month.

Flashback: Jennifer Lopez and Shakira's 2020 Super Bowl halftime show shook things up

Shakira teases 2024 tour at Coachella with Bizarrap

On Friday, she surprised fans at Coachella when she appeared during Bizarrap’s set to perform their global smash hit “Shakira: Bzrp Music Sessions, Vol. 53” and “La Fuerte,” both featured on her new album. Before exiting the stage, Shakira teased the tour news to a roaring crowd.

Coachella marks the second time in the last month that Shakira has surprised fans with a showstopping performance.

Last month, following the album release, Shakira shut down New York City’s Times Square, giving a crowd of more than 40,000 fans a peek into the energy of her live shows when she performed at the TSX Stage.

The performance included such iconic hits as “Hips Don’t Lie,” “Te Felicito/TQG” and “Session 53,” as well as “Puntería” and “Cómo Dónde y Cuándo” from her new album.

Shakira tour 2024 is in support of 'Las Mujeres Ya No Llora' album

The tour is in support of Shakira's new album, "Las Mujeres Ya No Lloran," which within 24 hours of its release became the most streamed album of the year with more than 10 billion streams, and was certified seven times platinum.

The album debuted at No. 1 on Billboard’s Latin Album and Latin Pop Album charts, while “Puntería” with Cardi B holds the No. 1 spot on both the Billboard Latin Airplay and Latin Pop Airplay charts.

Shakira last played Phoenix in 2018 on the El Dorado World Tour

Shakira last played Phoenix in 2018, when the El Dorado World Tour played that same venue, which was still called Talking Stick Resort Arena at the time.

Since then, she's performed one of the more iconic Super Bowl halftime shows in history with Jennifer Lopez.

How get tickets to Shakira tour 2024 in Phoenix

Citi is the official card of the Las Mujeres Ya No Lloran World Tour in the U.S., giving cardmembers access to purchase presale tickets from 10 a.m. Wednesday, April 17, until 10 p.m. Sunday, April 21, through the Citi Entertainment program. Visit www.citientertainment.com.

An artist presale will begin at 10 a.m. Friday, April 19, with additional presales running through the week ahead of the general on sale beginning at 10 a.m. Monday, April 22, at shakira.com.

Shakira tour VIP package for Phoenix concert

Fans can also purchase VIP packages, which may include premium tickets, a meet and greet and photo op with Shakira, an autographed item, access to the pre-show VIP lounge, an exclusive VIP merch item and more. Visit vipnation.com

Reach the reporter at ed.masley@arizonarepublic.com. Follow him on X, formerly known as Twitter, @EdMasley.