Overview: Onda Thana Mahavidyalaya is the general degree college in Murakata, Onda, Bankura district. It offers undergraduate courses in arts . This college was stablished in the year of 2007 vide Memo No 510 Edn ...

Overview: Birsha Munda Memorial College, established in 2010, is a general degree college at Pirrah, Haludkanali, Bankura district, India. It offers undergraduate courses in arts. It is affiliated to Bankura University ...

Overview: Akui Kamalabala Women's College, established in 2016, is a general degree women's college in Akui, Indas, in the Bankura district. It offers undergraduate courses in arts. It is affiliated to Bankura ...

Overview: Bankura Samhati Law College is a college imparting legal education in Bankura, West Bengal. It was established in the year 2010. It is the only Law College in the entire District and its neighboring D ...

Overview: Swami Dhananjoy Das Kathiababa Mahavidyalaya, established in 2009, is the general degree college in Bhara village, Bankura district. It offers undergraduate courses in arts. It is affiliated to Bankura ...

Overview: Government General Degree College, Ranibandh, established in 2015,. is the government degree college in Bankura district. It offers undergraduate courses in science and arts. It is affiliated to Bankura ...

Overview: Government General Degree College, Mejia, established in 2015,. is the government degree college in Mejia, Bankura district. It offers undergraduate courses in science, arts and commerce. It is affiliated ...

Overview: Chhatna Chandidas Mahavidyalaya , established in 2007, is the general degree college at Ghoramuli, Chhatna, Bankura district. It offers undergraduate courses in arts. It is affiliated to Bankura University ...

Overview: Raipur Block Mahavidyalaya , established in 2010, is the general degree college in Kharigerya, Raipur, Bankura district. It offers undergraduate courses in arts. It is affiliated to Bankura University ...

Overview: Indas Mahavidyalaya, established in 2006, is the General Degree College in Indas, Bankura district, India. It offers undergraduate courses in Arts and Sciences. It is affiliated to Bankura University ...

Overview: Patrasayer Mahavidyalaya, established in 2005, is the general degree college in Patrasayer, Bankura district. It offers undergraduate courses in arts. It is affiliated to Bankura University.

Overview: Saltora Netaji Centenary College, established in 2001, is the general degree college in Saltora, Bankura district. It offers undergraduate courses in arts. It is affiliated with Bankura University.

Overview: Gobindaprasad Mahavidyalaya, established in 1985, is the general degree college in Amarkanan, Gangajalghati Block, Bankura district. It offers undergraduate courses in arts. It is affiliated to Bankura ...

Overview: Pandit Raghunath Murmu Smriti Mahavidyalaya, established in 1986, is the general degree college in Baragari PO Jambani, Bankura district. It offers undergraduate and Postgraduate courses in arts and s ...

Overview: Barjora College, established in 1985, is the general degree college in Barjora, Bankura district, West Bengal, India. It offers undergraduate courses in arts. It is affiliated to Bankura University.

Overview: Saldiha College, established in 1966, is the general degree college in Saldiha, Chhatna Block, Bankura district. It offers undergraduate courses in arts, commerce and sciences. It is affiliated to Bankura ...

Overview: Sonamukhi College (সোনামুখী মহাবিদ্যালয়) established in 1966, is the general degree college in Sonamukhi, Bankura district. It offers undergraduate courses in arts, commerce and sciences. It is affiliated ...