Boston Marathon Victim

This undated photo provided by Meixu Lu shows Lingzi Lu in Boston. Boston University confirmed Wednesday, April 17, 2013, that Lingzi Lu, who was studying mathematics and statistics at the school and was due to receive her graduate degree in 2015, was among the people killed in the explosions at the finish line of the Boston Marathon Monday, April 15, 2013, in Boston. (AP Photo/Meixu Lu)

(The Associated Press)

By DIDI TANG and MEGHAN BARR, Associated Press

SHENYANG, China (AP) — The Chinese student killed in the Boston Marathon blasts grew up in an intellectual family in a northeastern Chinese city with gritty, industrial roots, and graduated from a highly competitive high school that routinely sends students abroad.

In Boston, where Lu Lingzi enrolled in graduate-level study in statistics, friends and teachers remembered her as an exceptional student and an exuberant personality who delighted in spring blossoms and culinary treats.

"The word bubbly — that's kind of a corny word — but that describes her very well," said Tasso Kaper, chairman of the mathematics and statistics department at Boston University. He added that Lu was "very interested" in flowers. "Spring is a very important time of year for her."

Back home in the Chinese city of Shenyang — where residents are still bundled in heavy coats to fend off chilly temperatures and strong winds — Lu's family home is an apartment on the grounds of a Communist Party training academy where her grandfather was a professor, neighbors said.

A woman who said she was a housekeeper at the apartment said Lu's parents — who are believed to be on their way to the U.S. — had left already.

Lu went to a nearby primary school before being admitted to a highly selective experimental public facility, Northeast Yucai School, where she studied from seventh through 12th grade. About 100 of the 600 graduates annually go to study abroad in countries including Australia, Singapore, Japan, France, Britain and the United States, and the rest usually go to top universities, often in Beijing. Local media say Lu scored the second highest in her class to go to Beijing Institute of Technology.

"It is such a pity. She was an excellent student and she got a chance to study abroad but didn't finish her study," Shenyang resident Zhang Zhuang said in an interview. "It is such a sad story. Her parents must be heartbroken."

Once a center of heavy industry under China's planned economy, Shenyang decayed and formed part of the country's rust belt in the 1990s. Now booming, it has sleek skyscrapers rising from its downtown areas, with many more under construction. Several high-rises are topped with domes and steeples in a nod to the Russian influence on the northeastern region known as Manchuria.

As news of her death spread in China, followers of her Chinese-language microblog multiplied more than tenfold to over 5,000 on Thursday. Under Lu's last post — a picture of her bread-and-fruit breakfast on the day of the marathon — people posted candle emoticons and wrote "rest in peace."

"We don't know each other, but we are from the city and now studying at the same city. Looking at your beautiful face, my eyes turned red," one of them said. Another said, "I can't believe this is your last breakfast, your parents must have been devastated."

In China, remembrance of her has taken place largely on the Internet. On Wednesday night, Shenyang residents held a vigil for her on a downtown pedestrian street, lighting candles to photos of a smiling Lu.

In Boston, fellow students have held memorial gatherings for Lu at the math department and at a campus chapel.

Another memorial was planned at the school's arena Thursday evening.

___

Barr reported from Boston.