Greece, renowned for its olives and marble. Follow Pressed & Polished as it traces the journey from extraction to creation, presenting olives transformed into soap and marble into gravestones. Discover the blend of tradition and technology, and witness how waste and consumption shape the country’s landscape.

This film is part of a course led by Juan Benavides, Sanne van den Breemer, Salomon Frausto, and Benjamin Groothuijse, the work investigates production and distribution landscapes in the Orient/East–Med Corridor through the lens of the region’s key natural resources of marble and olives.

Each year, the Berlage awards a scholarship to an outstanding Dutch graduate from one of the universities or academies in the Netherlands. The scholarship is established to support Dutch students who demonstrate academic excellence and wish to join the Berlage's international, one-and-a-half-year English-language Post-Master of Science degree program in architecture and urban design. The scholarship waives the full tuition fee for the degree program from September 2024 to January 2026.

Applicants should be graduates from a Dutch master program in architecture or urbanism and must have achieved excellent study results. As an indication, the student will be among the top 10% of the master's program that was followed. Students can only apply for the scholarship if they meet these criteria.

For inquiries, please reach out to info@theberlage.nl

Application deadline: July 1, 2024.

Read more

On Thursday, April 6, students presented Part 1 of "Project Global: The Logistics of Milk and Timber," in conversation with Caroline Sohie, Diederik de Koning, and Matiss Groskaufmanis. Part of a course led by Juan Benavides, Sanne van den Breemer, Salomon Frausto, and Benjamin Groothuijse, the work investigates production and distribution landscapes in the North Sea–Baltic Corridor through the lens of the region’s key natural resources of milk and timber. The presentation included the screening of the documentary "Moving Milk & Timber," filmed in Estonia, which follows the path of the most profitable product of each resource: fresh milk and prefabricated wooden houses.

The Berlage is pleased to announce its upcoming design master class from November 7–18, entitled "We wrote a master plan, on a piece of paper, but we lost it," led by Bristol-based duo John Wood and Paul Harrison. The two weeks will conclude with a public event, film screening, and performance on Friday, November 18.

John Wood and Paul Harrison make things that move and things that don't, things that are flat and things that are not, things that are mildly amusing and things that are definitely not. They make works that form a kind of reference manual for how to do, make, build, or draw things that you probably never want to do, make, build, or draw. They do it for you. Even though you don't need them to. This attempt to compile an encyclopedia of the everyday, started in 1993 after they met at art college. John Wood (b.1969, Hong Kong) and Paul Harrison (b.1966, Wolverhampton)

Follow the development of the master class in our Instagram profile.

Together the collective projects Travel Agency, Supermarket, and Fashion House explore the spatial implications of the three largest global industries: tourism, food, and fashion; they speculate on contemporary architecture's capacity to push the boundaries of material cultures and natural resources.

The contribution is part of the exhibition FUTURE GENERATION in the Keilezaal which showcases a group of young design practitioners representing the promise for a hopeful future, both in the short-term and in the long run.

www.iabr.nl

Traveling from an underground parking garage, filling station, drive-in pick-up point, drive-thru shopping mall, motel, and ridesharing hub, to a drive-in funeral home, drive-in cinema, battery replacement center, autocamp, car wash, and showroom, the animation tells the story of how the future car—a Mini, the exemplar of car designed for efficiency in the face of environmental crisis—could offer design opportunities for our buildings, cities, infrastructures, and territories.

The Faculty of Architecture and the Built Environment's contribution to the exhibition “Motion. Autos, Art, Architecture," curated by the Norman Foster Foundation and held at the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao from April 8 to September 18, 2022.

Research project team: Juan Benavides, Salomon Frausto, Dick van Gameren, and Kees Kaan

Supermarket is a collective project on the spatial implications of the food industry in the Netherlands and beyond, redesigning this now considered essential architecture to entail a paradigm shift in its journey towards optimization, sustainability, and health consciousness. It imagines a future supermarket that integrates retail experience with distribution, supply chains, and product display to ensure a fric-tionless future for conscious consumers; while, at the same time, creating a new civic presence for the city and its residents. The envisioned supply chain for the future super-market commences with the Blue Banana, enhancing the position of the Netherlands– one of the world’s largest food exporters and home to world-class research institutions–in this urbanized trade corridor.

Contributions by Georgia Katsi, Maria Finagina, Ana Herreros Cantis, Michael Tjia, Heng Yu, Jacklyn Mickey, Maria Christopoulou, Jin Young Chang, Ryan Ridge Rahardja, and Nishi Shah

Travel Agency is a collective thesis project that speculates on the spatial implications of tourism on Norway in a post-petroleum economy. Thirteen contributions—spread across the fjord of Bergen, the mountain of Kvitfjell, and the island of Andøya—respond to the specificity of each of these locations; while, at the same time, rethinking the relationship between the front and back stages of the global tourism industry. From second homes to space transportation and everywhere in between, all thirteen contributions commit in a critical way to Norway’s anticipated economic transition as well as the often-overlooked realities of tourism. Presented in publication, exhibition, and events, the imagined destinations of Travel Agency will take you on a varied journey across Bergen, Kvitfjell, and Andøya to arrive at a future Norway.

Contributions by Santiago Ardila, Juan Benavides, Daniella Camarena, Stef Dingen, Marco Fusco, Jack Garay Arauzo, Theodora Gelali, Shaiwanti Gupta, Sheng-Hao Hsu, Marianthi Papangelopoulou, Felipe Quintero, Gent Shehu, and Siyuan Wang.

The films produced during the 2021 theory master class led by Bêka & Lemoine are now available online at ajourneyroundmyroom-theberlage.nl. The master class explored the unprecedented proximity and familiarity we have with our daily domestic environments in the wake of the successive lockdowns. Revisiting Xavier de Maistre’s eccentric 1794 novel entitled "A Journey Round My Room," one of the first examples of a literature of confinement, participants investigated film as way to bring to experience, understanding, and narration of space that other kinds of representational media—such as plans, sections, elevations, or photographs—cannot.

Photo by Juan Benavides.