Each Mathnet story is divided up amongst five episodes of Square One, with the first episode appearing on Monday and the story finale appearing on Friday.

Season 1[]

The Problem of the Missing Monkey[]

A gorilla named Grunt escapes from the zoo, while a suspect dressed as a gorilla is being used to frame Grunt. With the help of a gorilla handler (Yeardley Smith), the Mathnetters eventually find Grunt (whom they mistakenly believe to be the suspect) climbing the Hollywood Sign. Later they apprehend the suspect at the zoo.

EPISODE TIME DESCRIPTION The Problem of the Missing Monkey (Part 1) 8:05 The Mathnetters investigate a series of burglaries allegedly committed by a monkey that escaped from the zoo.

The Problem of the Missing Monkey (Part 2)

9:40 In their continued search for a missing monkey, the Mathnetters come across information presented in a circle graph and use a map and a compass to estimate the approximate location of the gorilla.

The Problem of the Missing Monkey (Part 3)

8:18 The Mathnetters continue looking for the monkey, measuring the distance between footprints and using a map to figure distance, rate, and time.

The Problem of the Missing Monkey (Part 4)

8:17 The Mathnetters recognize that, sometimes, one must look at a problem from a different point of view -- and so hypothesize that they are searching for a gorilla and a man in a monkey suit.

The Problem of the Missing Monkey (Part 5)

10:01 George climbs atop the Hollywood sign, and the Mathnetters successfully solve the problem of the missing monkey -- putting both the gorilla and the thief behind bars.

The Problem of the Missing Baseball[]

A very important baseball has to be found at a house, but the house has been stolen by a helicopter. The house is eventually located, and the baseball is found in the fireplace.

EPISODE TIME DESCRIPTION The Problem of the Missing Baseball (Part 1) 6:27 The Mathnetters investigate a missing baseball by determining the angle at which it would have rebounded off a billboard. The Problem of the Missing Baseball (Part 2) 5:23 The Mathnetters gather facts and use logical reasoning to determine the whereabouts of a missing house. The Problem of the Missing Baseball (Part 3) 6:17 The Mathnetters continue their search for the missing house, using a database to access information about a pair of glasses that have turned up on the property. The Problem of the Missing Baseball (Part 4) 7:42 The Mathnetters determine the worth of stolen gold bars as they piece together a picture of the man who may have stolen the house. They also use a tap to determine the range a helicopter could fly. The Problem of the Missing Baseball (Part 5) 6:41 The Mathnetters use a floorpian to successfully locate the missing baseball.

The Problem of the Passing Parade[]

A parade was to be featured until the main attraction, Steve Stringbean, gets kidnapped. Stringbean tries to communicate the kidnapper's phone number to the Mathnetters in a short piece of music in a proof-of-life message left on an answering machine. He is later found in a musician's house.

The Trial of George Frankly[]

A security video appears to show George robbing a bank. He claims that he was on vacation at that time, and needs proof to back his claims that an imposter stole his identity. During the trial, George exposes the impostor.

The Problem of the Dirty Money[]

Tons of excavated dirt are being stolen from construction sites. As it turns out, a fortune stolen from a "Sphinx" (Brinks) armored truck many years ago was buried in the dirt. The prime suspect has died in jail, but his partner is eventually located.

The Mystery of the Maltese Pigeon[]

In a spoof of The Maltese Falcon, Maureen O'Riley puts a valuable bird sculpture from Malta on display at a museum, but it disappears without a trace. A young Maltese man who belongs to an ancient society helps Mathnet find the truth.

The Problem of the Trojan Hamburger[]

A clown is reported abducted, while a diamond is stolen by a thief who used a secret trick to get in and out. The clown finds his way home. The Mathnetters find that the clown actually staged the kidnapping to steal the diamond.

Season 2[]

Season 3[]

The Case of the Ersatz Earthquake[]

The Case of the Swami Scam[]

The Case of the Strategic Weather Initiative[]

The Case of the Parking Meter Massacre[]

New York is being stripped of its parking meters and nobody knows who's doing it! The Mathnetters learn that it was an inside job and caught the one responsible. Meanwhile, George's apartment was robbed and that same robber spent all Friday chopping parking meters open to find a non-existent rare quarter. He was later caught in the act.

EPISODE TIME DESCRIPTION The Case of the Parking Meter Massacre (Part 1) 6:27 The Mathnetters investigate a series of robberies & vandalisms involving parking meters. The Case of the Parking Meter Massacre (Part 2) 5:23 The Mathnetters gather facts and use logical reasoning to determine why the meters are being cut down & stolen. Meanwhile, George's apartment was robbed by a man driving a blue van. The Case of the Parking Meter Massacre (Part 3) 6:17 The Mathnetters continue their investigation by learning that a copy man made a copy of collection schedules for himself after making 86 copies for the dispatcher. So the netters follow him and caught him. The Case of the Parking Meter Massacre (Part 4) 7:42 The Mathnetters lean that another parking meter is vandalized but not stolen this time. They hypothesize that the man who robbed George's apartment is the culpit and is after a non-existent rare coin. The Case of the Parking Meter Massacre (Part 5) 6:41 The Mathnetters conjure up a plan to catch the thief/vandal/coin-hunter.

The Case of the Unkidnapping[]

The Case of the Masked Avenger[]

Season 4[]