Every year in December I traditionally go to Miami to visit art fairs organized during the art Basel time. Hundreds of galleries present thousands of artists from around the world then. This is one of the major art events in the US.

Every year I do my research and this year I had a goal. My job was to find artists whose work has an environmental theme, and galleries who support those artists. I dedicated a whole day to visit 3 fairs: Art Miami, Art Context and Untitled only to realize that my mission was close to impossible, and I would like to present this conclusion to your alarming attention. There were only a hand-full of artists who actually did something meaningful and wanted to address the issue. I would like to celebrate them in this post.

My sincere congratulations to:

Joseph Guay. Joseph presented works titled "Nature's Hope in the Destruction of Ourselves". The media he used was motor oil, high-rise buildings glass, stain, water, canvas. In his art statement he says: "When someone approaches my art created from bullets, gunpowder, motor oil, shattered high-rise glass, byproducts of weapons, terrorism and destruction.... they are intrigued and open-minded… not consumed with fear. So how can we reprogram ourselves to not react to the world out of fear? Can we not approach the issues I am presenting in my art with the same eyes of understanding and humanity? I do not have all the answers… but I do hope that we as a society will begin to introduce different solutions."

Presented by Westside Cultural Arts Center at Context Art Miami.

The best show in my opinion belongs to William Lamson at his solo display called All that is solid melts into air. He created site-specific works highlighting the coastal geography for the Untitled art fair's location. Since this fair traditionally is arranged on the beach, William created artworks made of salt and sand to elevate the essence of the environment around us. Stunning forms of crystalized salt were lit up to highlight the unique textures. Sand was shaped into intricate forms that simulated sand shapes found in nature. William's installation "functioned as an active experiment, a site of material transformation as salt water collected from the ocean continues to crystallize onto glass vessels and panels." www.williamlamson.com