Brian Brown, CFP®, CPFA Senior Vice President, Financial Advisor, Branch Manager

Brian joined D.A. Davidson in June 1995, and in 2000, became the youngest person ever to be appointed to D.A. Davidson's Chairman's Council. In 2005, he earned the CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER™ certification with the College for Financial Planning.

Brian grew up in Fort Benton and is a fifth-generation Montanan. He holds a bachelor's degree in business with a finance option from Montana State University-Bozeman and graduated with highest honors. He is proud to be an avid Bobcat athletics fan and Bobcat Club Member.

Brian is active in his church and enjoys coaching youth sports. He previously served as chair of the Bozeman Health Board of Directors, served on the D.A. Davidson Companies Board of Directors, and served on the Montana State University Alumni Association Board of Directors.

Brian loves sports and the outdoors, including chasing elk with his bow, mountain biking, boating, skiing, and golfing. Since 1998, he has been married to Shelby, a registered nurse at the Eating Disorder Center for Montana. Brian and Shelby have three children: Weston, born in 2004; Hadley, born in 2007; and Dawson, born in 2012.

Jim Webster, CWS Senior Vice President, Financial Advisor, Portfolio Manager

Jim joined D.A. Davidson & Co. in 1999 having started in the investment business in 1991 with Kidder, Peabody & Co. Jim was a Supply Officer in the U.S. Navy and served aboard the USS John Hancock (DD-981) and at the Naval Education and Training Center in Newport, RI. He earned the Supply Efficiency “E” for USS John Hancock and two Navy Achievement Medals for his service.

Jim holds an MBA in Finance and Marketing from the Franklin W. Olin School of Business at Babson College, Wellesley, MA (1991) and a BA in History from St. Lawrence University, Canton, NY (1980). Professionally, he has completed the Accredited Investment Fiduciary (AIF®) program at the Center for Fiduciary Studies. In addition, he holds the Certified Wealth Strategist (CWS®) designation from Cannon Financial Institute, Athens, GA. Jim has also completed the requirements for Preferred Portfolio Management from Portfolio Concepts.

Jim is active in the Bozeman community and has served on the boards of Bozeman Health Foundation, Big Brothers Big Sisters and other organizations. In June 2017, he received the Elizabeth Froelicher Smith Award for exceptionally meritorious service to Fountain Valley School during his board tenure (2011-2017).

Jim was born in Syracuse, NY and enjoys skiing, cycling, hiking, fishing and reading. He and his wife, Valerie, have three children: Emily, Cameron and Danforth. Valerie is an Episcopal Minister and her family is active locally as they own and operate the Elkhorn Guest Ranch near Taylor Fork south of Big Sky.

Alex Dabney, CFP®, Senior Vice President, Financial Advisor

Alex, a Bozeman native, joined D.A. Davidson in 2015. Prior to joining the firm, Alex was working as a National Accounts Manager for a financial services company in Bozeman. Before moving back to Bozeman in 2014, Alex was living in San Francisco and working as a Regional Sales Manager for one of the largest solar energy installers in the country.

Alex's roots in the financial services industry run deep as both his great-grandfather and grandfather were financial advisors. His father and former partner, Page Dabney, recently retired after working as a financial advisor at the D.A. Davidson Bozeman branch since 1984.

Alex grew up spending his free time in the outdoors, which became an integral part of his life. After a few years of competitive freestyle skiing in Bozeman, Alex finished high school at Brewster Academy, a private school in New Hampshire that introduced him to a new passion in the sport of lacrosse.

Professionally, Alex has earned the CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER™. He holds a bachelor's degree in communications from Saint Mary's College of California, where he also played lacrosse and achieved the All-Conference Midfield title. Alex is also a member of the Board of Directors for Thrive Bozeman, a community-based organization which provides mentoring, eductation and support for children and families.

Alex's wife, Mallory, is the owner of a small retail boutique in Bozeman called Heyday. In his free time, Alex enjoys spending time with Mallory and their two children.

Sarah Dittner, FPQP® Supervisory Branch Operations Manager, Registered Client Associate

Sarah became an integral member of the management team in our branch office in 2019, when she was named Branch Office Operations Manager for D.A. Davidson in Bozeman. In this role, she works closely with our financial professionals to help ensure that clients receive personalized service and that our branch is operating efficiently while following regulatory guidelines. In addition, she provides administrative support to our team.

Her expertise stems from learning best practices from other financial teams she has worked with, and from working in the company's IRA Department, where she juggled many of the details involved with client retirement plans. Besides holding the necessary licensing to buy and sell securities, she has earned the Financial Paraplanner Qualified Professional designation.

Sarah grew up in Wisconsin, and moved to Montana in 2004. Away from the office, Sarah enjoys spending time in Montana's great outdoors, running or hiking with her two dogs.

Cresta Sundling-Pahut, Client Associate

Cresta started with the Bozeman Wealth Management Group in July of 2023. She grew up on a ranch in Livingston, Montana and graduated from Montana State University in 1995. Before joining D.A. Davidson, Cresta was the Lead Escrow Officer at American Land Title for 24 years and the Escrow Manager for the last ten years. Cresta provides superb administrative support to the team and excellent service to our clients. She has been active in the Bozeman Community and Holy Rosary Catholic Church.

Cresta completed Leadership Bozeman through the Bozeman Chamber of Commerce. She is an avid Bobcat Booster and Bozeman Hawk Booster and supporter. Cresta and her husband Paul have two daughters that they enjoy watching at various sporting events. When not in the office, she enjoys golfing, skiing and spending time with family and friends.

Amy Carter, Client Associate