Overview: Beware of Pity is a 1946 British romantic drama film directed by Maurice Elvey and starring Lilli Palmer, Albert Lieven and Cedric Hardwicke. It is based on the novel of the same name by Stefan Zweig ...

Release date: 22 July 1946

Genre: Drama, Romance

Director: Maurice Elvey

A man asks a pretty young woman for a dance and discovers that she has been paralyzed in a fall from a horse and can't walk...

Overview: The Clairvoyant (US title: The Evil Mind) is a 1935 British drama film directed by Maurice Elvey and starring Claude Rains, Fay Wray, and Jane Baxter. Based on the novel of the same name by Ernst Lothar ...

Release date: 7 June 1935

Genre: Drama, Thriller

Director: Maurice Elvey

Producer: Michael Balcon

A fake music-hall clairvoyant meets a woman, and suddenly his predictions seem to come true ...

Overview: The Gay Dog is a 1954 British comedy film directed by Maurice Elvey and starring Wilfred Pickles, Petula Clark and Megs Jenkins. It was filmed at Southall Studios, and features Petula Clark singing "A ...

Release date: 1 June 1954

Genre: Comedy

Director: Maurice Elvey

Jim Gay loves his racing greyhound but, out of town, he finds a dog with a better chance to win. His friends bet on his dog while he bets against.

Overview: I Lived With You is a 1933 British romantic comedy film directed by Maurice Elvey and starring Ivor Novello, Ursula Jeans and Ida Lupino. It is based on the West End hit play I Lived With You by Novello ...

Release date: 14 June 1933

Genre: Romance, Comedy, Drama

Director: Maurice Elvey

In London a young lady meets a homeless and apparently penniless Russian prince. She introduces him to her middle-class Fulham family and he moves in ...

Overview: Maurice Elvey (11 November 1887 – 28 August 1967) was the most prolific film director in British history. He directed nearly 200 films between 1913 and 1957. During the silent film era he directed as many ...

Date of birth: 11 November 1887

Date of death: 28 August 1967

Age: 79 (age at death)

Nationality: British

Occupation: Director

Gender: Male

Overview: The Princess of Happy Chance is a 1917 British silent romance film directed by Maurice Elvey and starring Elisabeth Risdon, Gerald Ames and Hayford Hobbs. The screenplay concerns a Princess who tries to ...

Genre: Drama, Romance

Director: Maurice Elvey

A princess avoids a forced marriage by changing places with her double.

Overview: House of Blackmail is a 1953 British drama film directed by Maurice Elvey and starring Mary Germaine, William Sylvester and Alexander Gauge. Its plot follows a soldier and his girlfriend, who become mixed ...

Genre: Drama, Crime

Director: Maurice Elvey

Producer: Philip Brandon

Writer: Allan MacKinnon

A blackmailer is murdered, and the police find that there is a long list of suspects who wanted to see him dead.

Overview: The Great Game is a 1953 British sports comedy-drama directed by Maurice Elvey and starring James Hayter, Thora Hird and Diana Dors. It was based on a play by Basil Thomas. Many of the scenes were shot ...

Release date: 1 January 1953

Genre: Drama, Comedy, Sport

Director: Maurice Elvey

Producer: David Dent

The wealthy chairman of First Division Football Club, Burnville United, makes an unethical approach to a star player of another club, and the ensuing ...