" not everyone will experience the possibilities of it "

Written by Thomas Glorieux - Review of the regular release

The Possibility of an Island will be one of the more unusual films you'll come across in your life. Author Michel Houellebecq directed his own novel La Possibilité d'une île while hiring Mathis B. Nitschke as composer to bring his story to life. The mere synopsis of a man meeting his own clone demanded easily for an original approach. And Nitschke answered with an original debut score. MovieScore Media as always was on the lookout to make sure we would hear it.

We open dramatically in "Beginning Titles" with solo violin, giving you a distinct classical feeling (which is understandable considering the composer's concert work experience). This grows further in "Fanfare", giving you a variation on North's 2001 opening fanfare. The ominous sounding and militaristic "The Last Phase" does have a certain mood around it that keeps it interesting. But for the most part, the opening tracks will be a hit and miss for most of you.

The lovely sound of the violin during the slow romantic "Tango" is a breeze, but the moments that will elevate this original score to a higher level for most of you are the following. "Daniel23 Leaves" opens moody, but the build in classical style surely is spectacular. The percussion and choir here is a magnificent touch. The other "Finale" is a choral laden emotional finale worthy of its name.

In the other tracks Nitschke is happy by bringing moody soft music, whether through the violin in "Reincarnation" and the lovely "Rolling Titles" or by solo piano in "The Prophet's Piano" (composed by Julia Schölzel and Mathis B. Nitschke). The classical piece "La Source" is a soothing addition to the already diverse score.

It is a wonderful diverse touch and yet it is a touch that will not be adored by everyone among you. The mood and sound of The Possibility of an Island is distinctly routed in the classical sense. Considering Mathis Nitschke is trained and educated in this style, this is understandable and above all logic. His 2 crescendos do leave a filmmusic aftertaste lying around, making them easily the highlights for many fans. But the awkward song inclusions and the deeply routed sound of the classicism makes me alert. Alert that everyone should listen to the audio samples if this is the score you're looking for.

Tracklisting

1. Beginning Titles (1.31)

2. Fanfare (1.02)

3. The Last Phase (2.52)

4. Animator Leaves (1.29)

5. Tango (1.53)

6. In the Desert (1.31)

7. Daniel23 Leaves (4.42) Excellent track

8. Reincarnation (1.56)

9. The Prophet's Piano + (4.21)

10. La Source ++ (3.53)

11. Marie23 on Lanzarote (1.11)

12. Rolling Titles (2.16)

13. Finale (4.16) Excellent track

14. Sexy Queen: Ricky Kinnen (3.16)

15. Tanze!: Mathis B. Nitschke (2.49)

16. Cakaze Waltz * (1.37)

+ Composed by Julia Schölzel and Mathis B. Nitschke

++ Composed by Alphons Hasselmans

* E-Cello by Mathis Mayr

Total Length: 40.44