Difficult territory ... the forthcoming A Possibility of an Island

I have recently railed on these virtual pages against film-makers who play fast and loose with the source material when adapting novels. But what happens when the jiggery-pokery is performed by the very person who wrote the novel in the first place?

I think of this on hearing news that the controversial (to put it mildly - he has a gift and a taste for causing offence, particularly among liberals) French novelist, Michel Houellebecq, is going to be releasing, in September, his own film of his own novel, La possibilité d'une île (The Possibility of an Island).

The French have form in this regard: Jean Cocteau being the best example that springs to mind. But he was a genius, and making films in a manner, and at a time, when innovations in cinematic technique could be startling. Whether Houellebecq can produce something as original as Orphée or Le sang d'un poète is perhaps a matter of debate.

But then bear in mind that Houellebecq has been to film school (the Institut Lumière in Paris, although he didn't graduate), and has directed three shorts already (although the longest, a soft-core lesbian fantasy called La Rivière, has been described by one critic as "a sad bore", and does indeed sound dreadful).

Houellebecq caused a Martin Amis-style scandal when he left his old publishing company, Flammarion, on the grounds that they would not allow him total control of any cinematic adaptation. This control, it turns out, involves lots of special effects, filming on Lanzarote, and the excision of all but one female character. (Well, it's his book, he can do what he likes with it. He told a TV interviewer that having no respect for oneself, it was perfectly easy to cut the bits that don't work..)

A trailer aired on the website for the film does look quite spectacular, but then French sci-fi has always tended to look flashy, "le cinéma du look", as it's called, without caring too much about the details of plot or plausibility.

But it could work out. La possibilité d'une île, described in the TLS as "a bracing mix of visionary Aldous Huxley, Evelyn Waugh at his cruellest, and ranting John Osborne", is about cloning as a way of cheating death, and is audacious in the way that it seeks to modify the author's extraordinary misanthropy by linking itself, apparently unironically, with a loopy cult who recall, but for legal reasons are not to be identified with, the Raëlians.