Native American state tribal chiefs gathered in the first Supreme Chiefs Council meeting to address the needs and issues facing Native Americans.

Among their biggest concerns were education and homelessness.

"This is the first time in history this has ever happened in Louisiana," said Len Wiggins, chief of the Four Winds Tribe Louisiana Cherokee. The meeting was held at the tribe's lodge in Oakdale. "We had a very successful, successful meeting."

Chiefs and vice chiefs from the Four Winds Tribe of the Louisiana Cherokee, Talimali Band of the Apalachee, Louisiana Atakapas Eagle Tribe and Choctaw-Apache Tribe gathered to discuss educational scholarships and needs for the young members; medical assistance and needs for the elderly members and housing assistance for the homeless. Due to the COVID-19 crisis or other priorities, five other state chiefs were not able to attend but are looking forward to another meeting.

"Chiefs don't like putting our business out to other chiefs," said Wiggins. "But I told them, we all need to join together as one and have one voice. We'll be stronger in numbers."

"A lot of the chiefs opened up and discussed different things and different issues that happened with their tribe," said Wiggins. If one tribe is in trouble, he recommended, that all the chiefs can help that tribe and resolve whatever issue the tribe in trouble is facing.

The number one issue discussed was education and educational grants.

Each of the 13 state tribes get $600 a year for a scholarship that is awarded to one student from each tribe. The funds comes from the tax on specialty Native American license plate tags.

"$600 will not pay for books a semester," said Wiggins.

Education is the key in America, said Wiggins.

"To get a job and be productive, you have to be educated," he said. "I have some members that I can't put on my council because they can't read or write. They can't publicly get up and speak."

He said lots of Native Americans are still discriminated against and feel like they are being persecuted in schools.

"Well, guess what? They don't get educated," he said.

"Eighty percent of my members are not educated," said Wiggins. "And I ask them, 'Why not?' Persecution. Kids picking at them, calling them names."

Also of interest: About half of America’s states owe their names to Native American origin: Here's how each state got its name

He thinks if they got together and all the chiefs were on board, they could get a resolution addressing education.

Wiggins tells young Native Americans to be proud of their heritage.

"In the past, they've had bad experiences," he said. "But I tell them this, 'Learn from those experiences.' I learn from my mistakes. I learn what to do and what not to."

"There are only a few of us," he said. "We don't war with each other. That's one thing going on."

Homelessness was another issue the chiefs discussed.

"Indians are proud," said Wiggins. "They will not get up and tell you, 'We don't have food. We don't have a place to live.' They have too much pride."

"But I told them that they were going to have to push that pride aside and come forward and they have, They've been coming from everywhere."

But the state can't help them with housing unless they are a federally recognized tribe.

"The senators in Congress, yes, I can go to them and yes, they'll make promises but won't do anything," said Wiggins. "It's typical."

He told the other chiefs that politicians only see them as "votes" so if the tribes join together, they have about 100,000 voters.

"That gives us more power," said Wiggins. "You always get more done with numbers."

"I just told them, we'll just get together and if we make a resolution or something, and we get all the chiefs signing it, that's a lot of power," he said. "So that's what we're doing."

Wiggins said there are thirteen state tribes and six are federally recognized tribes in Louisiana.

He estimates that there are about 200,000-240,000 Native Americans in Louisiana.

"But that may be understating the number," he said.

Wiggins said the tribes have to work as a team and if there is an issue, he is available to help.

Wiggins said his tribe may be getting benefits that the others may not be getting. If so, he can tell the other chiefs who to talk to in any particular government office about getting assistance.

"If you have a problem, come talk to me," he said.

"We had a good turnout," said Wiggins of the first meeting. "Everybody was in harmony. And very peaceful. And everyone real excited. And even the members that didn't make it, they're really looking forward to the next one."

The Facebook posts about the meeting have had positive responses, he said.

"Some people get very radical," he said. "We try not to do that. We try not get radical. I tell people that I'm just glad to be on the Earth and that the Lord let me breathe air for awhile."

"If I'm given lemons, I make lemonade. There's good in all things and there's good in all people. It's what you seek."