The Office of Indian Affairs seeks to enhance the individual and collective communities of indigenous people in Louisiana by serving as a resource and referral agent for Louisiana Native Americans and tribes seeking assistance navigating local, state, and national policies. One of the Office of Indian Affairs' main duties is to be responsible for identifying the needs and solutions to seven areas of focus: economic development, education, healthcare, infrastructure, workforce development, broadband, and disaster response and recovery. The office focuses on program initiatives to address these ongoing issues while, in the same breath, promoting awareness of our tribal communities in this state and its unique culture. The Office of Indian Affairs also serves as a pass through to provide funding to various local entities in Avoyelles Parish for infrastructure and awards scholarships to Native American students.

Click here for a full list of Louisiana's federally and state recognized tribes.

Office of Indian Affairs Native American Commission

The commission’s purpose is to advise the Governor's Office of Indian Affairs regarding issues pertaining to Native Americans, identify the needs and concerns of the Native Americans in Louisiana, establish criteria for state tribe recognition and recommend criteria to the Governor's Office of Indian Affairs and the legislature for adoption and implementation, review applications for the Office of Indian Affairs Scholarship and recommend scholarship awardees to the Governor's Office of Indian Affairs, promote Native American culture, awareness, and education across the state, promote Native American Heritage Month in Louisiana and conduct a comprehensive review of all state departments and agencies to identify obstacles to the effective delivery of governmental services by all service providers at all levels of government to Native Americans, propose methods for removing those obstacles, and submit such proposals to the appropriate governmental entity or entities.

2022-2024 Native American Commission Officers:

Chairman: Chairman Thomas Rivers, Choctaw-Apache Trube of Ebarb

Vice Chairman: Chief Devon Parfait, Grand Caillou/Dulac Band of Biloxi Chitimacha Choctaw

Secretary: Debbie Garrett, Adai Caddo Indians of Louisiana

Office of Indian Affairs Scholarship

With assistance from the Louisiana Indian Educational Association, the Office of Indian Affairs annually provides awards to Native American students from Louisiana tribes to attend a college or higher education institution of their choice. The awards are funded through proceeds received from the renewal and sale of special prestige license plates for motor vehicles representing Native American culture in accordance with RS 47:463:78. Recipients are selected based on academic and financial need.

Scholarship Applications are now closed.

Click here for additional information on how to obtain the American Indian special plate.

Constituent Services

The Office of Indian Affairs serves as a resource for individual constituent and agency inquiries regarding a myriad of issues facing Louisiana Native Americans including sovereignty of federal tribes, connecting state agencies, federal agencies and individuals with tribes, custody issues relating to Native American children, as well as directing Native Americans to appropriate state agencies as needed.

Regional Map

Region 3:

Bayou Lafourche Band – Lafourche Parish

Chitimacha Tribe – St. Mary Parish

Grand Caillou/Dulac Band – Terrebonne Parish

Jean Charles Choctaw Nation – Terrebonne Parish

Pointe-au-Chien Indian Tribe – Terrebonne Parish

United Houma Nation – Terrebonne, Lafourche, Jefferson, St. Mary, Plaquemines, and St. Bernard. Parishes

Region 5:

Coushatta Tribe – Jefferson Davis Parish

Four Winds Cherokee – Allen Parish

Region 6:

Clifton Choctaw – Rapides & Vernon Parishes

Louisiana Band of Choctaw- Concordia Parish

Jena Band of Choctaw – La Salle Parish

Tunica-Biloxi Tribe – Avoyelles Parish

Region 7:

Addai Caddo – Natchitoches Parish

Choctaw-Apache – Sabine Parish

Natchitoches Tribe – Natchitoches Parish

Resources

Health Resources

The Louisiana Department of Health

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

Indian Health ServiceNational Resource Center on Native American AgingAssociation of American Indian Physicians

Housing

FEMA Assistance

Housing and Urban Development

Louisiana Housing Corporation

Office of Community Development

Education Resources

Louisiana Department of Education Louisiana Board of Regents Louisiana Association Of Independent Colleges & Universities Financial Aid for Native American Students American Indian College Fund National Indian Education Association American Indian Graduate Center U.S. Dept. of Education American Indian Services

Nursing Scholarships for First Generation College Students

Employment Resources

Louisiana Workforce Commission

Louisiana Department of State Civil Service Job Seekers

Contact

Staff:

Chandler Vidrine,MPA

Executive Director

Phone:

225-342-6160

Email:

chandler.vidrine@la.gov

Address: