Here are the addresses of Louisiana's Indian reservations:

1 Chitimacha Tribe of Louisiana:

PO Box 661

Charenton, LA 70523

http://www.chitimacha.com/

2 Coushatta Tribe of Louisiana:

PO Box 818

Elton, LA 70532

http://www.coushattatribela.org/

3 Jena Band of Choctaw Indians:

PO Box 14

Jena, LA 71342

http://www.jenachoctaw.org/

4 Tunica-Biloxi Indian Tribe of Louisiana:

PO Box 331

Marksville, LA 71351

http://www.tunica.org/

Other Indian tribes, bands and communities remaining in Louisiana today include:

Houma Indian Tribe:

20986 Hwy 1

Golden Meadow, LA 70357

http://www.unitedhoumanation.org/

Teaching and learning activities about Louisiana Native American tribes:

Feel free to print these out to use at school!

Louisiana Tribes Word Search: Printable puzzle hiding the names of Louisiana's Indian tribes.

Louisiana Language Greetings: Learn to say "hello" in several Native Louisiana languages.

Louisiana Native Animals: Learn the Native American names of Louisiana animals.

Louisiana Indian Facts for Kids: Answers to frequently asked questions about the tribes of Louisiana.

We currently have pages for the Caddo, Choctaws, Chitimacha, Houma, Natchez, Tunica, Atakapa, Alabama, and Coushatta tribes.

Recommended books about Louisiana Native Americans

(Our organization earns a commission from any book bought through these links)

Louisiana Indians:

Introducing Louisiana's Native American history and culture to kids.

The Historic Indian Tribes of Louisiana from 1542 to the Present:

In-depth look at Louisiana's Indian history.

The Road to Recognition: A Study of Louisiana Indians 1880-Present:

Recognition Odysseys: Three Louisiana Indian Communities:

Books about the history of Native American tribal recognition struggles in Louisiana.

Louisiana Creoles: Cultural Recovery and Mixed-Race Native American Identity:

Interesting book about the multi-racial ethnicity of Louisiana Creole people.

Louisiana Indian Tales:

A book of Louisiana Indian legends, written for younger readers.

Louisiana Place Names of Indian Origin:

The native etymology of present-day place-names in Louisiana.

Other resources about American Indian history, culture and society in Louisiana state:

Louisiana Indian History:

Culture and history on the Native American and creole peoples of Louisiana.

American Indians in Louisiana:

Information and pictures about Louisiana Native American tribes.

The Louisiana Indians:

Overview of Louisiana archaeology, with photos of ancient paleo-Indian artifacts.

Native Americans in Louisiana:

Profiles of eight Louisiana tribes, with biographies of Louisiana Natives.

The Caddo Indians of Louisiana:

Online book about this Louisiana Indian tribe.

Grand Casino Coushatta: Paragon Casino Resort:

Homepages of the Louisiana tribal casinos.

Sponsored Links:

Back to the index of Native American tribes

Back to our index of Indian tribes by state

Back to our American Indian website for kids

Indian houses French Michif Creek Indians Native American art

Would you like to sponsor our nonprofit work on Louisiana languages?