Share The Article

Last Updated 5 months ago

Solo travel is one of the hottest travel trends of 2024.

More and more travelers are opting to explore the world solo rather than travel with friends, family, or a significant other.

There are so many benefits to solo travel, but it can also be overwhelming — especially if it's your first time traveling alone.

As someone who has traveled solo to 50+ countries, there are many destinations I would not recommend for a first-time solo traveler.

However, the 5 countries below are some of the best places to start to ease yourself into solo travel. These destinations are safe, beautiful, and easy to travel solo.

Here's where to go for your first solo trip this year:

1. United Kingdom

One of the top destinations I always recommend for first-time solo travelers is the UK.

For travelers coming from the United States, the UK is probably the “easiest” place you can travel abroad.

You don't have to worry about any language barriers, it's easy to get around on your own, there are tons of fun things to do for solo travelers, and it's very safe.

London is a great place to base yourself on a solo trip to the UK, and there are lots of easy day trips you can take on the train from there.

You can also easily hop on the train and head up to Edinburgh, Scotland if you want to visit another UK destination too.

2. Mexico

Another great destination for first-time solo travelers is Mexico.

It's a tourism powerhouse and English is widely spoken in the most popular beach destinations like Cancun, Tulum, Playa del Carmen, Puerto Vallarta, and Cabo.

In particular, Cancun and the Mexican Caribbean are perfect for your first solo trip. Gorgeous beaches, fun activities like visiting Mayan ruins, and delicious food await you in Mexico.

It's also easy to meet other solo travelers while traveling in Mexico.

If you'd prefer a city break over beaches, Mexico City is also one of the top destinations in the country for solo travelers.

3. Thailand

The best country in Asia for first-time solo travelers is Thailand. Thailand, nicknamed the Land of Smiles, is safe and beautiful and has a well-trodden backpacker trail, making it very easy to get around and meet other travelers.

From the lively city of Bangkok to the mountains of the north to the stunning beaches and islands of the south, there is so much to explore in Thailand.

It's also incredibly affordable, making it a great value destination for solo travelers.

4. Croatia

If you're looking for one of the best European countries for your first solo trip, why not head to Croatia?

Croatia is among the safest countries in the world right now, making it a great destination for solo travel in Europe.

It's also impossibly beautiful, with amazing towns like Dubrovnik and Split dotting the Adriatic Coast and beautiful national parks like Krka and Plitvice Lakes inland.

There's a good level of English spoken in Croatia, and it's easy to get around the country on your own by bus.

As a solo female traveler, I also felt incredibly safe here.

5. Peru

Finally, if you're dreaming of South America, Peru is where I would start for a first-time solo traveler.

Peru has a well-developed tourism infrastructure so it's easy to get around and book activities.

It's also a destination where you can easily meet lots of other travelers.

This is a great destination for adventurous travelers. Trekking the Inca Trail to Macchu Picchu, hiking to Rainbow Mountain, surfing in Lima, and sandboarding in the desert in Huacachina are just a few of the epic activities that you can easily do solo in Peru.

↓ Elevate Your Travel↓

Sign Up Now For Travel Off Path Premium! No ads, VIP Content, Personal Travel Concierge, Huge Savings, Daily Deals, Members Forum & More!

✈️Join Our Travel Off Path Community Forum: Where travelers unite, ask questions, share experiences and even find like-minded travel buddies!

SUBSCRIBE TO OUR LATEST POSTS

Enter your email address to subscribe to Travel Off Path's latest breaking travel news, straight to your inbox.

This article originally appeared on TravelOffPath.com

Opinions expressed here are the author’s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, hotel, airline, or other entity. This content has not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of the entities included within the post.