Solo trips are a growing trend within the tourism industry. Over the past few years, more and more people have decided to take the plunge and enjoy the experience of traveling alone. In addition to being driven by the quest for self-understanding and new experiences, the growing trend of solo travel was also boosted by the influence of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in 2020. After many weeks of lockdown measures and isolation, the appetite for travel among solo travelers particularly increased. A 2020 survey conducted in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, and Australia revealed that almost half of solo travelers from these countries planned to travel more often.

Solo travel behaviors

The behaviors and motivations of solo travelers are diverse. Some prefer to travel with no companion to be more flexible and avoid distraction, while others are interested in social activities with locals or other tourists. Meanwhile some, generally older, solo travelers undertake long stays in hotels or on cruises as a luxurious break from daily life. Furthermore, participating in a guided tour or cruise is also a perfect way for solo travelers to meet new people. This practice seems to be popular among this community of travelers, since a study conducted in 2021 showed that most solo travelers had already taken at least one escorted tour or cruise, and more than a quarter had already participated in this type of activity five times or more.

Solo traveler spending

As with all types of travel, solo travel involves defining a precise budget that will cover all the expenses necessary for a successful trip, from transportation to lodging, including food and entertainment on site. According to a 2021 survey, most solo travelers spent between 1,000 and 2,000 U.S. dollars per week on average (excluding airfare) during their travels. Moreover, the average spending of European solo travelers per travel transaction amounted to approximately 285 euros in 2020. While British solo travelers had the highest budget on the European continent, the market with the lowest average basket was Italy, 60 euros below the European average.