Frederick Morse Purinton died on Tuesday, November 25, 2008 at Yavapai Regional Medical Center after a sudden illness. Born on June 6, 1932 in Middlebury, Vermont, he was the son of the late George and Dorothy (Chiverette) Purinton. He was 76 years old Frederick was a member of the Experimental Aircraft Association Chapter #658 in Prescott. He loved building and flying airplanes. He was a counselor in the local AA program for many years. He was an inventor and great problem solver in any job capacity he held. He also enjoyed riding his motorcycle. He was most proud of his volunteer work and his plane. Frederick is survived by his loving wife, Sylvia; his children Denise, Libby and Linda; six grandchildren; one great grandchild; brother Nelson; and sisters Gloria and Shirley. He will be greatly missed. The following is from Gloria: "This is about Frederick Morse Purinton. We called him Teddy. It is being sent to his brother, Nelson George Purinton. We call him Jimmy. It's a family thing, to call someone by a name they are not. Teddy changed Nelson's name the minute he laid eyes on him. Our parents always said that when baby Nelson was brought home, Teddy asked "What dya call him?" When he was told that the baby's name was Nelson, Teddy replied, "Oh darn, I thought you where going to call him Jimmy". The name Jimmy stuck most of the rest of his life. Teddy was a champion salesman. He sold socks to people that lived in the cold north who had to wear shoes year round, with socks - for warmth. He drove a milk truck from Vermont dairy farms to Boston for cheese makers. He owned a trucking company supplying farmers with bedding for cows because cows had to stay in barns during the long winter, for warmth. Till it finally dawned on him that it is cold in Vermont and he was allergic to all things related to cold. So he got in his car and drove, looking for NOT COLD! I remember when he came home from that trip. HAPPY! He had found paradise! You should have heard him talk about Arizona! He moved his whole family out there so fast he left a cold draft behind him. But, he never left us behind. He kept visiting us, bringing handfuls of Arizona sand to sprinkle over his brother and sisters. His children and wife are still in Arizona. Jimmy just made it. Maybe sister Gloria will make it. Sister Shirley is intrigued. The Purinton name is here, and is likely to stay. Stop moving around Teddy, we'll catch ya. Love, Gloria"