Charles Frederick Burdick died peacefully on December 10th, 2010, with the "best thing that ever happened to him", his wife Gladys, by his side. He was 88 and had just spent the entire day happily and lovingly with his children and grandchildren. Charlie and the former Gladys Tschauder celebrated their 62nd wedding anniversary in October.

Charlie was an auto mechanic all of his life, and could diagnose a machine's problems by asking the customer whether it was a tick, tick, tick, or thumpa, thumpa sound they were hearing. His reputation was known far and wide as an expert (recognized as such in Alexander Calder's autobiography), especially with antique cars. Remarkably, he spent 52 years working for the same Chevy dealership, first known as Carl and Walt's Garage, later becoming Don Heavens' Chevrolet and eventually West Chevrolet. In all that time his family only remembers him missing two days of work--once when he was so sick he couldn't move and they made him stay home, and the other was the day he turned 50 and decided to go fishing. He continued to work a full 40-hour week until he was 82. For many years, Charlie was also the after hours wrecker operator, so if you found yourself needing a tow, chances are he was the one helping you out of your nighttime jam.

His parents Chester Burdick and Ida Cole Burdick moved from house to house when Charlie was young, but he found his home when they settled in Woodbury. He was especially proud of his service to that town. Charlie served as a volunteer fireman for 25 years and achieved the highest rank of Captain, later serving on the Fire Commission Board. He also was a contributing member to the building committee for the Emergency Service Center of Woodbury. Because of his ability to interact and make friends with people of all walks of life, plus his interest in young people and their education, he was asked and then served on the original building committee for Nonnewaug High School.

Charlie enjoyed all types of music from country to opera; one of his favorites was Willie Nelson's "Crazy" sung by Patsy Cline. He also loved to read the Sunday funnies to his kids and grandkids. He especially loved "Gasoline Alley", and in fact for years called the haircuts he gave his boys a "Skeezix", as it resembled the hairdo of one of that strip's characters.

Besides his wife, he is survived by his two sons--Mark of Falls Village, Ct and David of Pittsfield, MA. Both have thankfully inherited his tireless work ethic and cherished qualities of never pre-judging anyone and being honest to a fault. They both also have "best things that have ever happened to them". In Mark's case it is his wife Bonnie and their children Sarah and Tyler. For David, it is Anne. He also leaves behind many nieces and nephews. He was pre-deceased by his beloved brother Elward (Oddie), and the brother they had too little time on this Earth with, Calvin.

Memorials: Instead of flowers, memorial contributions in his name can be made to either the Woodbury Volunteer Fire Department, P.O. Box 561, Woodbury, 06798 or the South Britain Congregational Church, 693 South Britain Rd., South Britain, 06487.

Location: Munson-Lovetere Woodbury

Funeral: South Britain Congregational Church

Services: Per Charlie's request, there will be only a simple ceremony of remembrance, to be held on Friday, December 17th at 11 a.m. at the South Britain Congregational Church. It will be followed by a reception in the church's Parish House. Please come and celebrate his wonderful life.

Visitation: There will be no calling hours.