Love is Blind UK has dropped on Netflix and according to the reviews two things are clear – love isn’t blind at all and the show's way of testing it is a bit ropey.

The programme is based on its US counterpart, with singles getting to know potential matches and trying to find love ‘sight unseen’. They date while hidden in ‘pods’ and the end game is hopefully a proposal and marriage. In the UK version, husband and wife team Matt and Emma Willis take on the presenting role carried out by Nick and Vanessa Lachey across the pond.

While critics have praised it as “bingeable” and “addictive”, many reviews point to the fact that the contestants are all “hot”, putting the “Is love blind?” element on shaky ground.

What do the critics think of Love is Blind UK?

Writing in The Independent, Ellie Muir said the novelty of the show “wears off quickly”. Muir noted that while all of the contestants lamented a modern dating scene based on appearance “the funny thing is everyone here is conventionally hot, making the concept of ‘love is blind’ sort of redundant”.

Yahoo’s review flagged that the 30 contestants were “big gym workout fans plucked from what might be called the 'easy on the eye' end of the market” and the Evening Standard said while the show was "bingeable", casting was “limited to hot, heterosexual and non-disabled”.

Critic India Block went on: "Everyone has joined the show out of a frustration with modern dating, where app saturation and social media has everyone always looking over your shoulder for an upgrade. But an epidemic of grass is always greener syndrome means that the minute the blindfold is whipped off wing’d cupid, the wheels come off on romance. It makes for bingeable television, but modern love’s problems can’t be solved with pods."

The appearance issue was also picked up by viewers, with one writing on X: "Every single Love is Blind is full of people with pretty privilege complaining that no one ever cares that they have a personality. 'Sigh, I wish people could look past my flawless skin and six pack'."

The Guardian gave the show just two out of five stars, and pointed out that everyone was “conventionally attractive and, in many cases, indisputably smokin’." Reviewer Elle Hunt also explained how the results from the six series that have aired Stateside have showed that the formula doesn’t really work all that well - from 178 participants, Love Is Blind has resulted in 11 marriages and two of those have ended.

She went on: “What makes the show hard to dismiss as mindless entertainment is some contestants’ high hopes for the ‘experiment’ and the vulnerability they display in the process. Where Love Island is explicitly gamified, Love Is Blind bills itself as a path to a lasting partnership, even though the results are in: love isn’t blind. You have to wonder how long we will be expected to keep watching.”

However, iNews’ Emily Baker was sold, dishing up a four star review. She declared the series “addictive” and said the British version of the series “might end up being the best in the world”.

“Apart from its new hosts and the swapping of Texan drawls for Brummie ones, Love Is Blind UK is identical to the US series,” she wrote. “There’s the same nonsensical, pop muzak soundtrack, the girls all still wear primary coloured bodycon dresses, the now-signature golden goblets are ever-present. But there’s something seductive, even flattering about one of Netflix’s biggest franchises hopping over the pond for our entertainment. And it’s good!”

What did critics say about Emma and Matt Willis?

Critics were generally positive when it came to Emma and Matt Willis as hosts.

The couple impressed The Guardian, with the review stating: “Emma and Matt Willis are a good match for Nick and Vanessa Lachey's star power, even if they don't share the American couple's supreme ease with the undertaking. It is, after all, essentially un-British to talk about your feelings, which all Love Is Blind participants are obliged to do constantly.”

But over in iNews, it was just Emma who really got a solid thumbs up. Emily Baker said in her four star review: “The difference in their experience is stark – while Emma is relaxed and chatty with the singletons, Matt is stilted and looks visibly uncomfortable. Not that it really matters – in the four episodes streaming today, the pair only pitch up twice.”

Yahoo’s Ian Hyland agreed the stars were a good pick. “Booking Mr and Mrs Willis to host was a sensible move,” he wrote. “Emma in particular adds a certain gravitas to proceedings. You feel that with her experience and reputation she wouldn’t be hosting this if she thought it was in any way iffy.”

What have viewers said?

So far, Love is Blind UK has impressed viewers looking for something new to add to their viewing schedules.

"I'm actually surprised by Love is Blind UK, I was half expecting it to be like MAFS and all fake Instagram 'models' but they seem like genuine people... so far!" one said on X.

"Love is Blind UK is soo much better than the normal version, so sweet and cuteee," said another, adding: "I love it."

Read more: Love is Blind UK