Workmen in the process of carrying on repairs to the Lobatera Parish Church (facade) to restore it to their original forms. A view of a Neo-Baroque balustrade (of 1967) with baluster-shafts, finial (cauldron goblet of 1908) at the top of a pediment with raking cornice. The view here is of the lateral door (north). Overlooking the pediment, horizontal cornice with frieze and alternating triglyphs and metopes with discs of overlapping coin-like forms, discs of overlapping coin-like forms or the aegis (a shield of goatskin), an Athena's symbol, the Goddess of Wisdom in Greek mythology and art, and Roman Doric capitals. (Photograph by Darío Hurtado, 2016)

Hail, chime on, chime on... The Lobatera Church Clock Dials (since 1913). Each dial contains separate pieces of pot opal glass, a type of glass with an opaque finish. The hour figure of four o'clock is shown by the Roman numeral IIII, rather than IV, as is more very often used on clock dials. (Photograph by Darío Hurtado, 2013).

Inside the dome... over and above the iconic shape. The perceived greatness of Our Lady of the Rosary of Chiquinquirá de Lobatera’s Church dome–from the inside–is a product of the perfect harmony of austere forms and geometry. According to Byzantine architecture and Biblical symbolism, all cubic shape represented the renewed Earth and the circular shape of the dome the unending movement of God. (Photograph by Samir Sánchez, 2013) The behavior of candles light in the interior of the magnificent structure of the Lobatera Church and its Romanesque revival architecture. The lighting of the paschal candle is a traditional Easter observance in the Lobatera Parish Church, since 1593. The paschal candle is lighted from flint on the night of Holy Saturday and all other candles in the church are lit by fire from this candle. In the Roman Catholic religiousness, the paschal candle represents Christ’s person and its flame symbolizes his resurrection as 'the light of the world' [Ego sum lux mundi, qui sequitur me, non ambulat in tenebris, sed habebit lumen vitae. Joannes 8:12]. The passing of the light to the congregation symbolizes Christ’s giving of his life to his faithful believers. Most solemn Easter service of the Lobatera Vigil 2017 is depicted and it was observed on the night of Holy Saturday with the blessing of the new fire. (Photograph by Darío Hurtado, 2017)

Like other basilicas of the Christianity, the centrepiece of the church is the High altar and Lady Chapel... Lobatera Parish Church interior, Romanesque revival High altar (directly under the centre of the dome, saint martyrs Theophanous, Perpetua, Gaudius and Heliodorus of Pamphylia relics are inserted in the altar stone or 'Mensa Domini'), bema and Lady Chapel with Aedicule divided in pediment, tympanum, ornate frieze with tablet-flowers, Roman Doric capital and pedestal. (Photograph by Darío Hurtado, Saint Lucia or Saint Lucy's Day, 13 December 2014)

'I am who I am...'Cornice dentil band and relief known as the All-seeing eye of Divine Providence, is depicted on the tympanum. All-seeing eye is a Renaissance ornament originated in Solomon's Prayer of Dedication: ‘Ut sint oculi tui aperti super domum hanc nocte et die super domum de qua dixisti erit nomem meum ibi - That your eyes may be open toward this house night and day, even toward the place of which you have said, My Name shall be there: that you may hearken unto the prayer which your servant shall make toward this place.’ (1 Kings 8:29. Biblia Sacra juxta Vulgatam Clementinam). Also, Paul wrote: ‘Et non est ulla creatura invisibilis in conspectu eius omnia autem nuda et aperta sunt oculis eius ad quem nobis sermo - Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight: but all things are naked and opened unto the eyes of Him with whom we have to do’ (Hebrews 4:13. Biblia Sacra juxta Vulgatam Clementinam). Photograph by Darío Hurtado, 2016.