CeeLo Green, with family members at The Mob Museum in downtown Las Vegas on Saturday night…

Stratosphere headliner Claire Sinclair, with a Stratosphere contingent on Sunday at the NASCAR race at Las Vegas Motor Speedway. Sinclair, who was with Mark Shunrock of “Rock of Ages,” was dressed in her “Pin Up” tank top. She also stopped by the Richard Petty Driving Experience Suite.

Dina Manzo of “The Real Housewives of New Jersey” reality show, dining at Andrea’s (Encore) on a girls-night out. She announced her separation from her husband Tommy via Twitter last month. After dinner Manzo’s group partied at Surrender Nightclub….

Dale Earnhardt Jr., with friends at Joe’s Stone Crab (Forum Shops at Caesars) on Wednesday. Earlier he performed an orange-colored burnout in front of Caesars Palace to promote NASCAR Weekend. It was part of the NASCAR Hauler Parade involving 18 rigs on the Las Vegas Strip…

CeeLo Green, at The Bank (Bellagio) on Friday hanging with former Outkast member Big Boi and T-Mo of Green’s Goodie Mob.

Also spotted at The Bank: Sterling "Steelo" Brim and Michael B Jordan from “Chronicles” and “Friday Night Lights.”…

At Scarpetta (Cosmopolitan) on Friday: Actress Olivia Wilde, with friends…

At the Meatball Spot (Town Square) on Friday: UFC favorite Frank Mir, with his wife; and boxing legend Leon Spinks with boxing referee Joe Cortez….

Actor Mickey Rourke, having cocktails with UFC president Dana White at Haze (Aria). At another table: rapper Lil Jon, drinking Don Julio 1942 with friends…

Actor Luke Wilson, taking in the Bob Weir show Friday night at The Pearl at the Palms. Earlier, Weir was spotted at 9 Steakhouse…

At “Love” (Mirage) on Sunday: Actress Becca Tobin, who portrays Kitty Wilde on Fox’s hit TV show “Glee,” with a group that included Dj Ashba of Guns N’ Roses. Afterward they went backstage and met the cast and crew…

“Chelsea Lately” comedy regular Jo Koy, with friends at Mystère (Treasure Island) on Sunday….

British singer-songwriter Leona Lewis, with friends at Hyde Bellagio on Saturday.

Seattle Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman, partying at ghostbar Dayclub at the Palms on Saturday. Later he dined at N9ne Steakhouse and signed chef Barry Dakake’s “shakedown’ door….

Running back Ray Rice of the Super Bowl champion Baltimore Ravens, with friends at Lavo (Palazzo) on Friday…

Brandi Glanville of “Real Housewives of Beverly Hills,” celebrating the release of her new book “Drinking and Tweeting and Other Brandi Blunders,” which has hit the New York Times bestseller list. She was joined by her co-author Leslie Bruce and two girlfriends…

Paris Hilton, belatedly celebrating her 32nd birthday on Friday at 1 OAK (Miragae) with boyfriend River Viiperi, brother Barron Hilton and friends….

At the opening night of "Human Nature" at The Venetian: Smokey Robinson, joining them on stage; Holly Madison, Frank Marino, Teller of Penn and Teller, Frankie Moreno, Carrot Top, Clair Sinclair, Kevin Burke, the cast of "Fantasy," Mark Shunock, Carrie St. Louis and Justin Mortelliti…

Rick Harrison of "Pawn Stars," hanging out with Dave Atell after the Comedy Central show at the MGM Grand on Friday. Atell performed with Jim Norton...

Former NBA tough-guy Charles Oakley, walking into Nobu Restaurant at Nobu Hotel (Caesars Palace) on Friday…

Derek Fisher at Andrea’s (Encore) with friends on Thursday….

"Masterchef" judges Gordon Ramsay and Graham Elliot, touring Ramsay's Las Vegas restaurants -- Gordon Ramsay Pub & Grill at Caesars Palace and Gordon Ramsay BurGR at Planet Hollywood on Wednesday and Thursday...

At David Copperfield’s show at the MGM Grand on Tuesday: Victoria Justice from Nickolodeon, showman Jeff Beacher and actor Ryan Rottman…

Oscar winner Halle Berry and fiancé Olivier Martinez, having a sweet time at La Cave Wine and Food Hideaway (Wynn) on Saturday. The cozy couple enjoyed hot tea, beignets and s'mores flatbread on the La Cave patio overlooking the Wynn Pool…

Rapper and actor Ice T, celebrating his 55th birthday with his wife, Coco, and friends at “Zarkana” (Aria at CityCenter) on Saturday before Coco dashed back to do “Peepshow” at Planet Hollywood Resort….

Roseanne Barr, with her mother at “Zarkana” on Friday. Her mother was overheard saying the sand painter was the highlight of the show…

Actor and comedian Tom Green, dining at Wolfgang Puck Pizzeria & Cucina (Crystals at CityCenter) on Saturday…

Adrian Grenier and “True Blood” star Jamie Gray Hyder, with a large group partying at Hyde Bellagio on Friday. Grenier told reporters he couldn’t offer many details on the upcoming movie version of the hit series “Entourage”….

Justin Shandor, capping his Elvis journey with a St. Valentine’s Day appearance on the David Lettermen show. He won his first Elvis impersonator contest at 17 (I know this because I was a judge) in 2002 and went on to win Elvis Presley Enterprises’ 2010 Ultimate Elvis tribute artist in Nashville.

Paula Abdul, stopping by a table where Smokey Robinson and Michael Bolton were dining at Tao (Venetian) on Friday. Later Robinson and Bolton headed for Tao nightclub, where they invited some lucky fans to join them at their V.I.P. table...

Washington Nationals star Bryce Harper, who won National League Rookie of the Year honors last season as a 19-year-old, drew a large crowd of young admirers to Bryce Harper Day on Friday at Findlay Toyota in the Valley Auto Mall in Henderson.

Sweden's Jaclyn Swedberg, the 2012 Playboy Playmate of the Year, and 2012 Playmate Ciara Price, dining together at Andrea's (Encore) on Friday…

Actor Omar Epps, with his wife and friends at Marquee (Cosmopolitan)...

Kelsey Grammer, with his family Wednesday and Thursday at Wolfgang Puck's Spago (Forum Shops at Caesars)…

Restaurateur and vineyard owner Joe Bastianich, with friends at Gordon Ramsay Steak (Paris Las Vegas) on Thursday after checking out Gordon Ramsay BurGR at Planet Hollywood Resort…

"Cake Boss" Buddy Valastro, sampling the lunch menu at First Food & Bar (Palazzo) on Tuesday…

Scenes for the finale of Showtime's "House of Lies" were filmed this week at Caesars Palace, while "Love in the Big City 3," with Sharon Stone, has been shooting at the Golden Nugget...

A Hollywood film crew, shooting scenes this week in Red Rock Canyon and Bonnie Springs for a Russian movie that includes a cameo by Sharon Stone of “Casino” and “Basic Instinct” fame. The scene involved three cowboys on horses and an old-fashioned horse-drawn open carriage with 1800s-costumed people. The scene included a “very big female actress,” I was told by film crew member. Stone has been in England shooting the British espionage thriller “A Different Loyalty” about British spy Kim Philby (Rupert Everett) and his third wife (Stone)…

Kelsey Grammer, with his family Wednesday and Thursday at Wolfgang Puck's Spago (Forum Shops at Caesars)…

Restaurateur and vineyard owner Joe Bastianich, with friends at Gordon Ramsay Steak (Paris Las Vegas) on Thursday after checking out Gordon Ramsay BurGR at Planet Hollywood Resort…

"Cake Boss" Buddy Valastro, sampling the lunch menu at First Food & Bar (Palazzo) on Tuesday…

Scenes for the finale of Showtime's "House of Lies" were filmed this week at Caesars Palace, while "Love in the Big City 3," with Sharon Stone, has been shooting at the Golden Nugget...

Ed Henry, Senior White House Correspondent for Fox News Channel, dining at La Cave Patio with La Cave owners Jenna and Michael Morton and celebrity bartender John O’Donnell…

Nicolas Cage, having lunch at the Tap House Thursday with Bob Harry, the owner, and L.J. Harness. Cage was spotted Wednesday having dinner with Motley Crue frontman Vince Neil at Tbones Chophouse at Red Rock Resort…

John Rich of Big and Rich, checking out the mud wrestling competition Wednesday at Gilley’s in Treasure Island. T.I. owner Phil Ruffin, who had mud wrestling at the New Frontier for years, resurrected the slimefest at the relocated Gilley’s earlier last month (11 p.m., Wednesdays)…

Lady Gaga and two friends, feasting on sushi in a private booth at Andrea’s (Encore) Friday after her show at the MGM Grand...

Oscar de la Hoya, at the Lion Fight 8 Muay Thai event at the Hard Rock on Saturday. Also in attendance: UFC fighters Cheick Kongo, Keith Jardine, Anthony Njokuani, Urijah Faber and Gilbert Melendez.

"Glee" star Becca Tobin, celebrating her 27th birthday at Hyde Bellagio on Saturday. Her entourage included DJ Asha of Guns N' Roses and representatives from Bullyville, an anti-bullying organization for which Tobin serves as a celebrity spokesperson.

Nick Carter of The Backstreet Boys, at Tao (Venetian) on Saturday, celebrating his 33rd birthday (which is Monday). He was with his girlfriend Lauren Kitt, sister Angel and friends. Also at Tao on Saturday: Jillian Michaels and Bob Harper, trainers in NBC’s “The Biggest Loser,” after attending “Le Reve” at Wynn…

Kirsten Dunst, dancing at a V.I.P. table with friends at Marquee (Cosmopolitan) on Friday…

Paul Shortino of Quiet Riot and Joe Lynn Turner of Deep Purple, backstage at “Rock of Ages” (Palazzo) on Tuesday…

On the red carpet Thursday at the "Parker" premiere at Planet Hollywood Resort: Jennifer Lopez, Jason Statham, "Parker" director Taylor Hackford, mixed martial arts legend Randy Couture, Planet Hollywood International co-founder Robert Blake, "American Idol" winner Taylor Hicks, Holly Madison, Coco Austin and Cheaza of "Peepshow," chef Carla Pellegrino, Claire Sinclair, Carrot Top and Anthony Cools.

At Gallery (Planet Hollywood) on Thursday: Jason Statham, Jennifer Lopez and boyfriend Casper Smart, after attending the Las Vegas premiere of "Parker" on the hotel's mezzanine. Also there: Mario Lopez, Holly Madison, Coco Austin of "Peepshow," Carrot Top and Josh Strickland. Earlier, Statham had a late lunch at Holsteins Shakes and Buns in The Cosmopolitan Hotel, where he and LA Reid of "X Factor" dined on California turkey burgers, Grey Goose and soda cocktails, Heinekens and a round of Jameson shots...

Tropicana headliner Roseanne Barr, at Ferraro’s on Paradise Road with family and friends on Monday. Her son, Jake, and his wife made a surprise appearance at the show. Barr had fun with them, telling the audience that sons always look for a wife for reminds them of their mother. “He married a woman who is opinionated, not at all like me," said Barr, who is at the Laugh Factory through April…

Retired baseball great Cal Ripkin Jr., with a group at Joe’s Stone Crab (Forum Shops at Caesars) on Tuesday…

Kate Upton, in the kitchen at Andrea’s getting dim sum tips from executive chef Joseph Elevado. On the red carpet she told me hopes the rumors are true that Miss Alabama USA Katharine Webb will part of the upcoming 2013 Sports Illustrated Swimsuit shoot, which reportedly will be held in Las Vegas.

Also attending the grand opening: George Clooney’s galpal, Stacy Keibler; “Extra” host Maria Menounos, Holly Madison, Claire Sinclair, Arianny Celeste, actresses Krysten Ritter of “Don’t Trust the B---- in Apt 23” and Ashley Greene of “Twilight,” actor Elijah Woods, Rich Harrison and Russell and DJ Afrojack. Also spotted: crooner Steve Lawrence, with Dennis and Lorraine Bono.

Grammy winner Bruno Mars, dining at at Lupo by Wolfgang Puck on Saturday at Mandalay Bay …

Mirage headliner Terry Fator, taking in Celine Dion's show Sunday at the Colosseum at Caesars Palace. Fator was with his wife, Taylor Makakoa, and Makakoa's mother, Nani Koki…

Actor George Clooney, at Andrea’s, the new restaurant at Encore, for the launch of his tequila brand, Casamigos, last Wednesday. He got behind the bar with business partner Rande Gerber and served drinks…

Swimming star Ryan Lochte, with friends at a special Sunday edition of Lavo's champagne brunch. Later, crooner Robin Thicke and wife Paula Patton were spotted at a VIP table with Marlon Wayans and his wife and friends. Also in the house: Heather McDonald from E!’s "Chelsea Lately."...

At UFC 155 on Saturday at the MGM Grand Garden: Carrie Underwood and her husband Mike Fisher of the Nashville Predators, Mike Tyson, Anthony Kiedis of the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Laura Prepon, Jaime Pressly, MC Hammer and Shane Victorino of the Boston Red Sox.

UFC legend Randy Couture with NHRA driver Ron Capps, at Rocks Lounge (Red Rock Resort) Friday catching an Elvis Monroe’s performance...

DJ Calvin Harris, at Tao Nightclub (Venetian) on Thursday with his brother and friends. Also at the club was rapper Flava Flav, wearing his signature clock necklace...

Jerry Seinfeld, with friends at Joe's Stone Crab (Caesars Palace) on Tuesday. He had performances this week at Caesars Palace...

Motown legend Smokey Robinson, dining Wednesday at La Cave Wine and Food Hideaway...

Reality stars Ice-T and Coco at Lavo (Palazzo) Sunday with friends...

Comedian Pauly Shore at Tao Bistro (Venetian) Thursday night with friends. The group had satay bass, kung pao and specialty sushi rolls before going to the club...

Actor Gilles Marini visited Exotics Racing Thursday to drive the Lamborghini Aventador. He also got to experience a ride-along in the Corvette Z06 with Exotics Racing CEO and owner Romain Thievin...

David Arquette, hosting his staff of 40 from his Los Angeles nightclub, Bootsy Bellows, at The Act (Palazzo) on Wednesday. Arquette’s club is named after his grandmother, a famed burlesqure dancer…

The University of Washington football team, getting their pants scared off during a tour of Eli Roth's Goretorium on Wednesday night. In town to play Boise State in the Las Vegas Bow on Saturday, they arrived in five buses and made their way throught the haunted attraction in groups of six. A few players couldn't handle the gore and bolted….

Darius McCrary, best known for his role as Eddie Winslow on the popular family comedy "Family Matters," dining at the Meatball Spot in Town Square on Wednesday night...

Rapper and entrepreneur Dr. Dre, with wife and friends Sunday night at Tao Asian Bistro (Venetian)...

UFC star Shane Carwin, hanging with friends at Hooters Casino Hotel on Saturday...

Former Chicago Bears running back Gale Sayers, the youngest inductee in the Pro Football Hall of Fame, at the National Finals Rodeo on Friday night. ...

Hollywood director Steven Spielberg, touring the Cleveland Clinic Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health on Tuesday with founder Larry Ruvo. ...

Mark Matejka, lead guitarist for Lynyrd Skynyrd, sat in with the Texas Jamm Band on Tuesday and Wednesday nights at the Gold Coast's Buck'n Ball after-rodeo party. The Texas Jamm Band features members of George Strait's Ace in the Hole Band and musicians who play with other entertainers...

New headliners Faith Hill and Tim McGraw, dining Thursday night at Wolfgang Puck’s Cut (The Palazzo) are in town for their current "Soul2Soul" residency at the Venetian...

Paul Teutul Jr. of the "American Chopper" reality show, having lunch at Todd English's P.U.B. at CityCenter on Thursday. ...

Fiddling legend Charlie Daniels, chasing down former Sheriff Ralph Lamb at the National Finals Rodeo on Monday after Lamb was honored. Daniels apprehended the legendary cowboy-lawman and got a photo with him...

Gov. Brian Sandoval, taking a high-speed ride at Exotics Racing in a Ferrari Scuderia, with Exotics Racing owner and race car driver Romain Thievin at the wheel...

A dressed-down Shania Twain, her hair in a ponytail and wearing a baseball cap and big reflective aviator glasses, during a shopping spree at Kids Kastle inside the Forum Shops at Caesars on Wednesday. She was seen purchasing Roberto Cavalli children's clothing...

Reality stars Linda and Nick Hogan shopping at Volcom inside Miracle Mile Shops at Planet Hollywood Resort & Casino on Monday...

Country trio Lady Antebellum, among a group sharing cocktails and canapés at Restaurant Guy Savoy (Caesars Palace) on Sunday...

“Dancing with the Stars” Melissa Rycroft dining at Tao with husband Tye Strickland on Sunday night...

Actress Sofia Vergara and fiancé Nick Loeb, watching the New York Giants game Sunday at Blondies Sports Bar & Grill (Miracle Mile Shops)...

Reality stars Linda Hogan and son Nick Hogan, of ‘Hogan Knows Best’ at the live cooking station at La Cave Wine and Food Hideaway (Wynn) on Sunday....

In the audience at the Faith Hill and Tim McGraw show at The Venetian: Bruce Springsteen and his wife, Patty Scialfa, with Oscar winner Tom Hanks and his wife, Rita Wilson. Before the show they dined at Wolfgang Puck’s CUT at Palazzo)….

At the Manny Pacquiao-Juan Manuel Marquez fight at MGM Grand Garden Arena on Saturday: Mitt & Ann Romney, Nicole "Snooki" Polizzi of “Jersey Shore,” rapper and fight promoter 50 Cent, rappelling into the ring while singing “My Life” as his fighter Yuriorkis Gamboa entered the arena, Magic Johnson, Wayne Gretzky, Metta World Peace, Chef Gordon Ramsey, Mike Tyson, Sugar Ray Leonard, Anthony Anderson, Michael Pena and Academy Award-winning director Billy Fiedkin (“Exorcist” and “French Connection”), seated with boxing promoter Bob Arum and Magic Johnson. Fiedkin is coming out with his autobiography in the spring…

At “Zarkana” (Aria at CityCenter): “True Blood” star Joe Manganiello, with his girlfriend, brother and dad on Friday. They were in town for the Pacquiao-Marquez fight. Saturday’s celebrity turnout included: Kyle Kaplan (“10 Things I Hate About You” and “Gossip Girl”), Christopher Mintz-Plasse (“Superbad” and “Kick-Ass”) and Nicholas Braun (“Perks of Being a Wallflower”). They were celebrating the wrap of their new series, “Friend Me.”…

Snookie, hosting a post-fight party at Tabu (MGM Grand). Earlier she had dinner at Craftsteak with a group that included her father…

Andre Agassi, Steffi Graf and son Jaden, with Jaden's youth baseball team for 11-year-olds, Las Vegas Venom, making a $10,000 donation to Chet Buchanan and the KLUC toy drive on Friday night....

Celebrity chef Gordon Ramsay, with friends at Wolfgang Puck's Spago (Forum Shops at Caesars) on Friday. He was in the news Friday for registering The Spotted Pig name for a new London restaurant. That's the same name of a popular New York City eatery co-owned by Mario Batali. Chef/author Anthony Bourdain was among several chefs who torched Ramsay for taking steps to trademark the name. "Shameful pathetic," Bourdain tweeted...

Olympic champion gymnast Nastia Liukin, at “Shania: Still the One” at The Colosseum (Caesars Palace) on Thursday night...

At “Friday Night Fights” at the Mirage Events Center Thursday: Rapper 50 Cent, retired pro boxer Sugar Ray Leonard, retired American boxer Tommy Hearns and current Welterweight Champion Paulie Malignaggi...

Rapper and boxing promoter 50 Cent, temporarily denied access to the Manny Pacquiao-Juan Manuel Marquez news conference for lack of a credential on Wednesday at the MGM Grand. Some of the older security personnel didn't recognize him, but the situation was quickly resolved…

NFL’s Justin Bethel, cornerback for the Arizona Cardinals, at Marquee Monday night. He was joined by teammates and friends at a table in the main room...

Jamie Spears, father of pop princess Britney Spears, dining at the Meatball Spot at Town Square on Saturday...

NASCAR driver Denny Hamlin, at Marquee (Cosmopolitan) on Saturday night. Hamlin took in the sounds of Cedric Gervais from a VIP table in the main room...

Olympic gold medalist Gabby Douglas at Spiedini Ristorante at J.W. Marriott on Saturday. She is in town for appearances at Canyon Ridge Christian Church. ...

Among the thousands participating in the Santa Run at Town Square on Saturday: Mirage headliner Terry Fator and his wife, Taylor Makakoa, Mayor Carolyn Goodman, and James Davis and Sami Eskelin of the Chippendales, the Jabbawockeez, the "Fantasy" girls and members of the cast of "Legwarmers: An 80s Musical." ...

Comedian and actor Rob Riggle, at the bar Friday night at Society Café (Encore)...

Harrah's headliner Kevin Burke, the star of "Defending the Caveman," was pressed into pinch-hit duty Wednesday when the scheduled host of the "NASCAR Chasers Champion Week Game Show" couldn't make it to the Fremont Street event. Burke was notified at 5:30 p.m., filled in and managed to do his own show as well...

‘Deal or No Deal’ host Howie Mandel, at La Cave (Wynn) in between NASCAR Awards appearances on Thursday...

Reality star Nicole "Coco" Austin of “Ice Loves Coco,” dining at STK (Cosmopolitan) with a group of friends on Sunday...

Lisa Marie Presley, sipping champagne with her husband, Michael Lockwood , while taking in Guns N' Roses at the Hard Rock Hotel on Saturday. She came alive when the band played "Sweet Child o' Mine." They were spotted dancing on Friday at Hyde Bellagio. ...

Chelsea Handler's sidekick Chuy, dining at Lavo (Palazzo) with a small group of friends on Friday night...

Academy Award-winning actor Nicolas Cage with wife Alice Kim, had a double date night out with Motley Crue frontman star Vince Neil and girlfriend at Joe’s Stone Crab (Caesars Palace) on Friday...

"Dancing With the Stars" performer Gilles Marini and "Glee" star Dot Jones, co-hosting the kickoff of "Winter in Venice" at The Venetian and the premiere of "Mannheim Steamroller Christmas" at Palazzo on Tuesday. ...

"Top Chef: Seattle" contestant Carla Pellegrino, driving a black Ferrari 430 Scuderia at Exotics Racing on Tuesday at the Las Vegas Motor Speedway. During her warmup lap she asked her instructor whether there was speed limit. "No," he said. "Good," she replied, and punched it up to 190 mph. ...

Tony Award winner Betty Buckley, taking in "Mystere" (Treasure Island) and "Zumanity" (New York-New York) over the weekend.

“Breaking Bad” actor Aaron Paul, with his fiancée at STK (Cosmopolitan) on Sunday...

Virtuoso guitarist Jose Feliciano, joining Carlos Santana on stage for a few songs at Santana’s residency show Friday at the House of Blues Las Vegas...

At the taping of Jerry Lewis' PBS special on Sunday at The Orleans : Steve Lawrence and Eydie Gorme, Tim Conway and Cuba Gooding Jr....

Former Playmate of the Year Sara Underwood, meets Botero Supper Club (Encore) executive chef Mark LoRusso before partying at Surrender Nightclub (Encore) on Saturday...

Rapper 50 Cent, dining Saturday afternoon at Society Café (Encore) having a chicken Caesar salad and veggie flat...

Extra TV correspondent Ben Lyons, at Tao (Venetian) with friends dining on signature dishes at the Asian bistro before heading up to the nightclub on Saturday...

Music legend Quincy Jones, with Wynn and other VIPs at Brooks' last show Saturday...

Actress Kathy Griffin, dining at Japonais (Mirage) with a friend on Friday...

Former New York Yankees and Los Angeles Dodgers manager Joe Torre, with baseball Hall of Famer Bob Gibson, at Joe's Stone Crab on (Forum Shops at Caesars) on Thursday. They are in town for the Tony La Russa's charity event at the MGM Grand. Also spotted at Joe’s: Billionaire Ted Lerner, real estate mogul and managing principle owner of the Washington Nationals...

At the Interjet ceremony marking the inaugural flights linking Las Vegas to Toluca, Mexico on Thursday: Interjet airlines president Miguel Aleman, reigning Miss Mexico Mariana Berumen, Planet Hollywood founder Robert Earl, former Las Vegas mayor Oscar Goodman, Holly Madison and Laura Croft and Otto Merida, president and CEO of the Las Vegas Latin Chamber of Commerce...

Two dozen contestants in Señorita Mexico U.S., a division of the Miss Mexico beauty pageant, dining at Fogo de Chão Brazilian Steakhouse on Wednesday. A winner will be crowned at the Rio's Crown Theater on Saturday at 10 p.m. ...

Members of the Blue Man Group, posing for a photo with Rihanna backstage after their appearance on "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" Wednesday...

Cast and crew of "Zumanity" (New York-New York), celebrating their ninth anniversary with a party at Hyde (Bellagio). Among the group: "Dislocation" performer Arslan Gusengadzhiev, William Hulett aka "Rose Boy," Alan Jones Silva, whose stage name is "Tissus," and Julia Kolosova - the sexy schoolgirl in "Hoops"...

“Hangover” actor Ken Jeong feasting on grilled robata and sushi specials at Japonais (Mirage) with his wife on Saturday...

At Marquee (Cosmopolitan) on Friday: "Breaking Bad" actor Aaron Paul, with fiancée Lauren Parsekian and friends, with Mark Foster of Foster the People, after dinner at Tao (The Venetian). Also at Tao: Ashley Tisdale and Sarah Hyland, Olympic gold medalist swimmer Cullen Jones and E! News correspondent Jason Kennedy and Ryan Basford of "Chelsea Lately." ...

At Meatball Spot (Town Square) on Friday: UFC heavyweight champion Frank Mir, former welterweight champion Zab Judah and actress Joan Severance...

At Friday's grand opening of Cirque du Soleil's "Zarkana" (Aria at CityCenter): Francis Ford Coppola, Taylor Hicks, Aaron Paul of "Breaking Bad," "Glee" stars Dot Jones and Harry Shum Jr., Siegfried & Roy, Guns N' Roses stars DJ Ashba and Richard Fortus, Pia Zadora, Criss Angel, Carrot Top and chef Carla Pellegrino...

Grammy winner Sergio Mendes, dining at Bartolotto Ristorante di Mare (Wynn) on Thursday ...

Oscar winner Jamie Foxx, dining at Tao Asian Bistro (Venetian) on Thursday before heading up to the club. Also at the club: former NFL lineman Warren Sapp and Olympic swimming gold medalist Cullen Jones, at separate tables...

Comedian/actor Cedric the Entertainer, in town rehearsing for the 2012 Soul Train Awards show spotted at Joe’s Stone Crab (Caesars Palace) with his wife on Wednesday...

Actor Bradley Cooper, in town filming “Hangover 3” with on-again-off-again girlfriend Zoe Saldana at Joe's Stone Crab (Caesars Palace) on Monday. French chef Guy Savoy and Motley Crue frontman Vince Neil was also dining at the restaurant for lunch...

Professional skateboarder Tony Hawk, with his family at “Bodies...The Exhibition” (Luxor) on Saturday...

Former UFC heavyweight champion Andrei Arlovski, having lunch Sunday at Todd English's P.U.B. He won a first-round knockout Saturday in the debut of the World Series of Fighting at Planet Hollywood Resort...

Hollywood icons Robert De Niro and Michael Douglas, taking a break from filming “Last Vegas”to attend “Love” (Mirage) on Thursday...

The world's most decorated Olympian, swimming star Michael Phelps, dining with a friend at Society Café (Encore) Thursday...

San Francisco 49ers linebacker Patrick Willis, with friends at STK (Cosmopolitan) on Thursday...

At the Palms' Pearl concert venue, Dixie Chicks’ singer Natalie Maines made a surprise appearance and joined Eddie Vedder onstage Thursday night to sing "Golden State." In the audience: Jason Baldwin of West Memphis Three notoriety....

At the opening of the new location of Stoney's Rockin' Country at Town Square on Thursday: Stoney's co-founders Chris Lowden and Stoney Gray, cast members of "Peepshow," the cast of "Bite" with producer Tim Molyneux, headliner Murray Sawchuck with wife Chloe and sidekick Lefty, MMA star Ryan Couture and friends, BMX star Ricardo Laguna, Rock n Roll Artist Michael Godard, Chris Phillips of Zowie Bowie and Lance Jon of the Cash Presley Band...

Actor Kevin Kline, with friends at Julian Serrano Restaurant (Aria at CityCenter) on Thursday. Kline is shooting "Last Vegas" with Robert De Niro, Morgan Freeman and Michael Douglas...

Actress Salma Hayek, with her family at Yellowtail (Bellagio) on Monday night ...

Michael Douglas, back at Julian Serrano Restaurant (Aria at CityCenter) for tapas. He's shooting "Last Vegas" with Robert De Niro, Morgan Freeman and Kevin Kline...

Former Clark County Sheriff Ralph Lamb, with a group Monday at the Golden Steer, an old Vegas institution. Earlier he joined Carrie-Ann Moss of CBS' hit drama "Vegas" on the red carpet at the Vegas magazine party at The Venetian ...

UNLV grad Guy Fieri, host of the Food Network's "Diners, Drive-ins and Dives," dined at Wolfgang Puck's CUT at Palazzo on Monday with a group of nine ...

Speedway Motorsports Chairman Bruton Smith, whose tracks include Las Vegas Motor Speedway, at Piero's on Monday with longtime Las Vegas gaming executive and car racing enthusiast Mel Larson and LVMS President Chris Powell.

At the grand opening of The Act (Palazzo) on Saturday: Elton John, hosting a private party for the 50th birthday of his partner David Furnish, Mark Salling of "Glee," Chris Mann of “The Voice,” actress Susan Sarandon, Matt Stone, co-creator of “South Park,” actress Malin Akerman, Michael Gladis and Christina Hendricks of “Mad Men,” nightlife queen Allison Melnick, Michael Gladis, performance artist Raven O and Simon Hammerstein, Murtaza Akbar and Randy Weiner of The Act.

The Colosseum’s newest performer Shania Twain, attending fellow headliner Elton John's “The Million Dollar Piano” (Caesars Palace) on Friday...

Country superstar Shania Twain, visiting fellow Canadians at the early performance of "Mystère" (Treasure Island) with husband Frederic Thiebaud, their children and some friends on Wednesday…

Comedian Carlos Mencia, dining with friends on Monday at Stk (Cosmopolitan)…

Rock band One Republic, spotted at Tao (Venetian) Monday dining on sea bass, sushi and Buddha chicken…

Academy Award winner Morgan Freeman, dining at Joe’s Stone Crab inside the Forum Shops (Caesars Palace) on Sunday with a large group…

Chris Phillips of Zowie Bowie, ordering off the vegan menu Monday at Encore...

David Spade, with friends at Wolfgang Puck’s Spago (Forum Shops at Caesars) before they attended the Elton John show Sunday. Also spotted at the restaurant: "Chumlee" Austin of "Pawn Stars."...

“High School Musical” star Zac Efron, who turned 25 last week, was spotted at Marquee (Cosmopolitan) on Saturday...

Funny guys Ray Romano and Kevin James, dining at Japonais (Mirage) Saturday in separate groups. They performed together at The Mirage over the weekend...

NBA Hall of Famer Michael Jordan, dining on tapas at Julian Serrano (Aria) on Saturday…

At Elton John’s “The Million Dollar Piano” (Caesars Palace) on Saturday: Actor and director Morgan Freeman, David Spade, and talk-show legend Larry King and his wife Shawn…

Comedian/actor Martin Lawrence, in front row seats in a foursome at the 10 p.m. performance of “Zumanity” (New York-New York Hotel) on Saturday….

Oscar winner Nicolas Cage, backstage after checking out Gordie Brown’s show at the Golden Nugget on Saturday…

Jessica Stroup, who stars in the hit TV series “90210,” celebrating her 26th birthday at Pure nightclub (Caesars Palace)n on Saturday. Her group included her mother and brother…

UFC president Dana White, with a group at Fright Dome (Circus-Circus) on Saturday that toured the haunted attractions and rode rides….

RZA, the Wu-Tang Clan’s chief producer, touring Eli Roth's Goretorium on Saturday…

Former heavyweight boxing champion Leon Spinks, dancing to Yellow Brick Road’s show at the South Point on Friday…

Singer Pink, spotted in the lobby at Red Rock Resort on Friday. ...

Los Angeles Lakers assistant coach Eddie Jordan, buying socks Friday at Misura (MGM Grand). The Lakers were in town to play an exhibition game against the Sacramento Kings. ...

At Javier's, the new Mexican restaurant at Aria (CityCenter): Kobe Bryant on Thursday, Michael Jordan on Tuesday. ...

Los Angeles Lakers forward Ronald William Artest Jr. a.k.a Metta World Peace, at Tao on Thursday with a group of friends...

"Watershed" producer Jamie Redford, son of Robert Redford, with friends including Jenna Morton of the Las Vegas philanthropic community at La Cave Patio (Wynn) on Thursday...

"Charmed" actress Rose McGowan, with friend Joel Michaely dining on kobe meatballs, chicken parmigiano and baby asparagus at Lavo (Palazzo) on Sunday...

Actress Suzanne Somers, with her husband Alan Hamel at the "Donny & Marie Show" (Flamingo) on Friday...

Legendary U.S. Air Force pilot Chuck Yeager, celebrating his 65th anniversay that he became the first pilot to break the sound barrier with dinner at Joe's Stone Crab inside the Forum Shops (Caesars Palace) on Sunday...

Singing star Cee Lo Green of NBC’s “The Voice,” with his family at Strip House (Planet Hollywood) on Thursday night. He was in town to tape his Christmas show at Planet Hollywood Resort, where he will be soon be headlining...

Grammy Award winning singer Michael Buble, at Thursday's performance of "Elton John The Million Dollar Piano" at The Colosseum (Caesars Palace)...

Singer Rod Stewart, with friends on Wednesday at Wolfgang Puck's Spago at The Forum Shops (Caesars) ordering corn soup, halibut and truffle risotto with Kistler Pinot Noir...

"Pawn Stars" star Corey Harrison, having rock shrimp tempura, spicy tuna, shrimp tempura and a wasabi bloody mary at Social House (Crystals) on Tuesday...

Former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich, dining at Javier's (Aria) on Sunday night...

Rapper Busta Rhymes, ordering lobster tail, shrimp cocktail and Alaskan king crab legs for dinner Saturday night at Joe's Stone Crab (Caesars Palace)...

Actress Heather Locklear, with Richard "Richie" Sambora at Lombardi's Romagna Mia inside Miracle Mile Shops (Planet Hollywood) on Saturday...

Rock icon Jon Bon Jovi, dining at Social House (Crystals) on Saturday on an assortment of miso soup, ramen and speciality rolls for lunch...

Actor Colin Hanks, at Marquee Nightclub with his wife and friends. The eldest son of actor Tom Hanks and his group posted up on the roof deck patio on Friday...

Seattle Mariners pitcher Felix Hernandez, having a family dinner at Society Cafe (Encore) on Thursday. The group shared steamed edamame, lollipop chicken wings, calamari and kobe burgers...

Actor Nicolas Cage, with his family attending the opening night of "The Batman Live World Arean Tour" (Thomas & Mack Center) on Wednesday...

Actress Katherine Heigl, having a cocktail at Japonais (Mirage) on Tuesday...

International superstar Justin Timberlake, with five friends at Old Homestead Steakhouse (Caesars Palace) on Monday following his Shriners Hospitals for Children Open...

Redfoo of LMAFO, dining at Kabuki Japanese Restaurant in Tivoli Village on Sunday...

Singer Bruno Mars, at Wolfgang Puck Pizzaria & Cucina at (Crystals) at CityCenter Sunday...

Goretorium creator Eli Roth, dining at Wolfgang Puck Pizzeria & Cucina (Crystals) at CityCenter Sunday...

Paris Hilton, partying at Marquee (Cosmopolitan) for the second night in a row on Saturday. Joined by her brother Barron and friends Hilton partied in the main room taking in the sounds of Avicii...

Actress Eva Longoria, with friends at Wolfgang Puck's Spago (Forum shops at Caesars Palace) on Saturday...

“Pawn Stars” cast member Cory Harrison, serving as the celebrity keg tapper at the Hofbrauhaus on Friday. His entourage included father Rick Harrison. Their appearance created 1,000 reservations, second only to Siegfried and Roy. A member of the oompa band who scored a photo with Cory said “Pawn Stars” is one of the most popular shows in Austria…

Charles Barkley, with friends at Hyde Bellagio on Friday…

Paris Hilton, partying at Marquee (Cosmopolitan) on Friday. Hilton last week issued an apology to the gay community after a recording surfaced in which she could be heard saying gay men are “disgusting” and “most of them probably have AIDS.” Also at The Cosmopolitan: Adrian Grenier of “Entourage,” in a cabana at the Boulevard pool for the Blink-182 concert…

It was “Fight Night” at Picasso (Bellagio) on Friday. Among a large party for the opening of the Hublot Boutique: George Foreman, Tommy Hearns, Lennox Lewis, Larry Holmes, Roberto Duran and John Ruiz. Keeping them entertained was rapper Flavor Flav…

Christian Serratos of “Twilight,” turning heads at the Hard Rock Hotel pool Saturday in her new blonde look. She was belatedly celebrating her 22nd birthday, which was Sept. 21...

Former Chicago Bears quarterback Jim McMahon, checking into the Paris on Friday…

Lou Ferrigno of “Incredible Hulk” fame, signing autographs at the Mr. Olympia 2012 Expo at the Las Vegas Convention Center on Saturday...

Retired boxer Lennox Lewis with NFL free agent Jeremy Shockey, dining at Tao Asian Bistro (Venetian) on Friday night. The group had yellowtail sashimi and New York sirloin before heading up to the club...

Celebrities at Eli Roth's Goretorium grand opening on Thursday: Eli Roth, Musican Dave Navarro, Strip headliners Jabbawockeez, "LA Ink" tattoo artist Corey Miller, "Ghost Adventurers" Zak Bagans, Victoria Asher of Cobra Starship, Rapper DJ Paul of Three 6 Mafia, "Inglorious Bastards" actor Omar Doom, lead guitarist of Guns N' Roses Dj Ashaba, host of "The Antonio Bellatore Project" Antonio Bellatore, Miss nevada 2012 Jade Kelsall, first runner up Miss USA 1995 Shanna Moakler, professional boxer Zab Judah, actress Elina Madison and singer Sammi Benz...

Former Major League Baseball player Jose Canseco, dining at Joe's Stone Crab (Forum Shops at Caesar's Palace) on Chilean Sea Bass with a large group on Thursday...

Funnyman Louie Anderson, dining at Society Café (Encore) with a friend on Thursday...

"Project Runway" host and supermodel Heidi Klum, dining at Joe’s Stone Crab (Forum Shops at Caesars Palace) with her bodyguard/rumored-to-be-boyfriend Martin Kirsten on Tuesday. The couple had a variety of menu items including oysters, medium stone crab, pan roasted sweet corn, and filet mignon...

Academy Award-winning actor Nicolas Cage, with wife Alice Kim dining on oysters, stone crab and filet mignon at Joe's Stone Crab (Forum Shops at Caesars Palace) on Tuesday...

Country singer Trisha Yearwood, browsing the Farmers Market at Tivoli Village on Saturday for a photo shoot with a national magazine...

Country superstar Taylor Swift, dining at Serendipity3 (Caesars Palace) over the weekend. Swift enjoyed a foot-long hot dog and the restaurant’s classic Lookie Lookie Gimme Cookie sundae; a mixture of chocolate chip cookie dough ice cream, hot fudge, whipped cream and cookie assortment...

At the National Atomic Testing Museum on Saturday for the Area 51 Distinguished Lecture "Military Men Who Believe in UFO's": Ben McGee from "Chasing UFO's," Ben Hansen from "Fact or Faked" and "Poltergeist" writer Mark Victor...

Five-time Tour de France winner Miguel Indurain, finishing among the lead peloton after completing the 122-mile route of 2012 Viva Bike Vegas on Saturday. The charity ride hosted by the Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada (RTC) traversed the Las Vegas Valley, beginning with a ride on the Strip, then moving on to Hoover Dam, then circling Red Rock National Recreation Area. Other participating notables included former Major League Baseball All-Star and World Series champ Aaron Rowand and president of Pinarello Cycling, Fausto Pinarello...

The celebrity turnout for Brad Garrett's Maximum Hope Foundation Charity Poker Tournament over the weekend at the MGM Grand included: Garrett, Ray Romano, Cheryl Hines, Mimi Rodgers, Elizabeth Perkins, Willie Garson, Stephanie Hunt, Jon Dore, Jon Manfrellotti, Kevin Jordan, Stephen Thomas, Dennis Phillips, Andy Bloch, Joe Awada, and Chip and Karina Jett. Robin Leach emceed the event, which attracted 300 participants...

At the fifth anniversary party of chef Akira Back’s Yellowtail (Bellagio) on Thursday: Light Group co-owners Andrew Sasson and Andy Masi and Casey Brennan, LG’s new vice president of public relations for Las Vegas. Also there: the electronic dance trio Swedish House Mafia, Jermaine O’Neal from the Phoenix Suns, defense attorney David Chesnoff and Wynn Las Vegas executive Tim Poster. Brennan has spent much of the past decade working with US Weekly, In Touch Magazine, the New York Daily News and Vegas Magazine.

TV personality Ryan Seacrest, in town to prepare for the iHeart Radio festival with friends at Tryst (Encore) on Thursday...

Justin Timberlake, celebrating with his bachelor party took over the dance floor table at Tryst (Encore) on Thursday...

Pop star Rihanna, soaking up the sun in her tie dyed bathing suit at Marquee Dayclub (Cosmopolitan) on Thursday...

"Dancing with the Stars" pro Mark Ballas, with a small group of friends at Tao Beach (Venetian) on Thursday...

Legendary baseball player Barry Bonds, having lunch at Wolfgang Puck's Postrio Bar & Grill at the Grand Canal Shoppes (Venetian) on Wednesday...

Bravo's "Millionaire Matchmaker" Patti Stanger, at Marquee Dayclub (Cosmopolitan) on Sunday in town for work and Insomniac's Wet Wonderland...

Actor Wayne Brady and Hispanic television sportscaster Fernando Fiore, learning about the orginal Renaissance man at "Da Vinci-the Genius" inside the Imgaine Exhibitions Gallery (Venetian) over the weekend...

"Parks and Recreation's" Adam Scott, visiting Tao nightclub (Venetian) on Saturday...

Four-time boxing world champion Miguel Cotto, dining at Joe’s Stone Crab (Forum Shops at Caesars) with his trainer and friends Saturday after the Saul Alvarez-Josesito Lopez fight…

Marc Anthony, celebrating his 43rd birthday early at The Foundation Room nightclub and lounge (Mandalay Bay) on Friday night. He was in town for a stop on his Gigant3s Tour at the Mandalay Bay Events Center. He was his tour mates Chayanne and Marco Antonio Solis. Anthony's birthday is Sept. 16...

Mike "The Situation" Sorrentino of "Jersey Shore" fame, with friends at STK (Cosmopolitan) on Friday...

Star of "The Voice" Cee Lo Green, taking in the sounds at Marquee's (Cosmopolitan) Boom Box Room on Friday...

Disney star Jennifer Veal from "Jessie," goofing around back stage with the cast of "Absinthe" (Caesars Palace) after the show on Wednesday...

Grammy Award winner Michael Bublé, dining on oysters, Pacific rock crab claws and Chilean sea bass at Joe's Stone Crab inside the Forum Shops (Caesars Palace) on Monday...

Before taking in the show, the stars of the film attended a reception at Tom Colicchio's Craftsteak (MGM Grand). They included: Kristen Ruhlin, Johnny Messner, Tenille Houston, Louise Linton, Alex Solowitz and Joel Michaely...

Rapper Will.I.Am, spun a special DJ set at Marquee (Cosmopolitan) on Saturday...

Actress Angie Everhart, dancing with boyfriend at Tao nightclub (Venetian) on Saturday...

Singer John Mayer, with friends at N9ne Steakhouse (Palms) on Friday...

In the audience at Joan Rivers' show at The Venetian on Friday: Rio headliner Penn JIllette, comic Kathy Griffin and Frank Marino who portrays Rivers in "Divas Las Vegas" at the Imperial Palace. Earlier, Rivers, Griffin and Margaret Cho made an appearance on a stage at Fourth Street before the start of the Pride Parade. Rivers wowed 'em with her gold lame cape that, when opened, revealed rainbow colors.

New York stylist Patricia Fields, dining at Wolfgang Puck Pizzeria & Cucina (Crystals) Thursday night prior to the Fashion Night Out Event. Fields is best known for being the costume designer for "Sex And The City," as well as the movie "Devil Wears Prada," where she was nominated for an Oscar for Best Costume Design...

Baseball star Orel Hershiser, with family at Wolfgang Puck’s Spago (Caesars) Thursday night dining on the margherita pizza, tuna sashimi, shrimp curry and café chicken...

At the V.I.P. opening of Enzo Febbraro’s Allegro (Wynn Las Vegas) on Thursday: Steve and Andrea Wynn held court at a table that included Irwin Molasky, Frank Schreck, “Tiger” Mike Davis, Jody Ghanem, Janie Schorr. Also: restaurant consultant Elizabeth Blau , Clint Holmes and Kelly Clinton, Dennis Bono and Lorraine Hunt, Roger Thomas, restauranteur/political activist George Harris, Pia Zadora, Sandy Peltyn, former Gov. Bob Miller with his son, Secretary of State Ross Miller, Annee Nounna, Corey and Craig Nyman, and Bruce Spotleson.

Actor Nicolas Cage, having lunch at Tommy Bahamas in Town Square on Wednesday…

Olympics sensation Michael Phelps, with girlfriend Megan Rossee at Hyde Bellagio on Tuesday for the birthday party of poker player Jeff Gross. Phelps and Gross, who have been roommates for a number of years, have been competing in poker games during Phelps’ visit. Gross has been predicting Phelps would be a regular in live local tournaments once the Olympics were over…

Diddy, dining with girlfriend and 30 of their friends at Tao Asian Bistro (Venetian) on Saturday...

"Psych" star James Roday, sipping on a skinny margarita at the bar with his lunch on Saturday at Hussong's Canitina (Mandalay Place)...

"Pretty Little Liars" actress Ashley Benson, dining at Lavo (Palazzo) on Friday...

Comedian Kevin Hart, with friends at a VIP table at Tao (Venetian) on Thursday to kick off Labor Day Weekend...

Hollywood royalty Michael Douglas and Catherine Zeta Jones, with their children at Nathan Burton’s magic show at the Flamingo on Sunday. Their 12-year-old son Dylan was brought on stage and dressed like Elvis for a comedy bit. The family, including 9-year-old daughter, Carys, went backstage for photos with a group that include Luxor magic headliner Criss Angel and local talent agent Jaki Baskow, a longtime Douglas acquaintance. Douglas is in town filming HBO’s Liberace project “Behind the Candelabra” at the LVH (formerly Hilton)…

Matt Damon, tipping large while playing blackjack at the MGM Grand ultraexclusive mansion over the weekend. He’s co-starring with Douglas in "Behind the Candlabra"...

Academy Award winner Adrien Brody, having kobe sliders and sashimi at Social House (Crystals) on Wednesday...

Michael Jackson's father Joe Jackson, backstage Tuesday chatting with dancing twins Sean and John Scott of "Vegas! The Show" (Planet Hollywood)...

Reality star Adrienne Maloof of "The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills," attending the official Project after party at Marquee (Cosmopolitan) on Tuesday...

Latin superstar Jennifer Lopez, with family at The Pods by Wolfgang Puck (Crystals) enjoying frozen beverages on Monday...

Prince Harry, with close friends dancing and sipping on cocktails at XS nightclub (Wynn) on Saturday...

In separate groups at Lavo (Palazzo) on Sunday: NBA great Allen Iverson and Miami Heat center Joel Anthony, a former UNLV standout....

Jennifer Lopez and Prince Harry, in separate bungalows at Wet Republic (MGM Grand) on Saturday. Prince Harry was later seen at Wynn Las Vegas, where he was reportedly staying...

Olympic swimming gold medalist Ryan Lochte, hosting at Tao Nightclub (Venetian) on Saturday and belatedly celebrating his 28th birthday, which was August 3. Lochte dined at Tao Asian Bistro with friends before heading for the nightclub where he was introduced to DJ Vice....

Elisha Cuthbert of ABC’s "Happy Ending," spotted at Lavo (Palazzo) with a group of girlfriends...

Celebrity blogger Perez Hilton, arriving at Marquee (Cosmopolitan) at 2 a.m. He took in DJ Kaskade's music from a dance floor table...

Comedian Drew Carrey, celebrating in a private bungalow with 10 ladies at Surrender (Encore) on Friday...

"Aces of Comedy" headliner Ray Romano, catching a performance of "Love" (Mirage) on Thursday...

Olympic BMX rider Sam Willoughby, celebrating his 21st birthday with friends at Tao Asian bistro (Venetian) on Wednesday...

Chicago Bulls shooting guard Richard Hamilton, with a group of friends at a dance floor table at Surrender (Encore) on Wednesday...

Shaquille O'Neal's former wife Shaunie O'Neal, who appeared in the reality show "Basketball Wives," grabbing lunch with a producer of the show at Wolfgang Puck Pizzeria & Cucina (Crystals) on Monday...

Actor Kelsey Grammer, dining with his wife Kayte Walsh and new baby Saturday at Wolfgang Puck's Spago (Caesars Palace)...

"Fort Boyard" co-host Olivier Minne, dining on lobster pizza, spaghetti and meatballs at Lavo (Palazzo) on Saturday...

Entertainment journalist Ben Lyons, celebrating a friend's birthday Friday at Lavo Nightclub (Palazzo)...

Former President Bill Clinton, ordering pan-seared tofu during dinner with a large group Tuesday at Spago (Caesars Palace)....

DJ Rev Run, with wife Justine Jones and two daughters Angela and Vanessa Simmons at Joe’s Stone Crab (Caesars Palace) on Monday...

Former World Series MVP Orel Hershiser, stopping by Joe’s Stone Crab (Caesars Palace) for a drink in the bar with his wife to kick off their evening out on Tuesday...

Singer-songwriter Dianne Warren, attending "Celine" (Ceasars Palace) on Saturday...

Reality star Rob Kardashian, dining on the kobe meatball with salad at Lavo (Palazzo) on Friday...

Pop star Kelly Clarkson, joining boyfriend Brandon Blackstock and members of her band in a grand cabana at Marquee Dayclub (Cosmopolitan) on Thursday...

New York Knicks Raymond Felton, with friends at The Sporting House (New York-New York) on Tuesday...

Caesars Palace headliner Celine Dion, with her children at Wolfgang Puck Pizzeria & Cucina (Crystals) on Sunday...

San Diego Chargers Antonio Gates, with wife at Joe's Stone Crab (Caesars Palace) on Sunday finishing the meal with Old Fashioned Apple Pie a la Mode...

Stratosphere headliner Frankie Moreno, singing "Save the Last Dance" at the Pop Evolution show at The Lounge (Palms Casino) along with "America's Got Talent's" Michael Grimm performing "Let's Stay Together" on Saturday...

Former NSYNC member Lance Bass, celebrating the marriage of two gentlemen at Tao (Venetian) on Saturday...

HBO star Jamie-Lynn Sigler, of "The Sopranos" celebrating the bachelorette party of a girlfriend at Lavo (Palazzo) on Saturday...

Entertainment journalist Ben Lyons, taking in the scene at La Freak Fridays at Lavo (Palazzo) on Friday...

Chad Rodgers, from Bravo's "Million Dollar Listing" at Tao nightclub (Venetian) on Friday...

Reality star Vicki Gunvalson of "Real Housewives of Orange County," ordered salmon at Joe's Stone Crab (Caesars Palace) while boyfriend Brooks Ayer got the fried chicken on Thursday...

New York Knicks star Amare Stoudemire, with friends on Wednesday at STK (Cosmopolitan)...

Memphis Grizzlies Rudy Gay, visiting Lavo's (Palazzo) Hip-Hop Wednesdays...

Michael Jordan, dining at Jean George's Steakhouse in Aria (CityCenter) on Tuesday...

San Diego Chargers tight end Antonio Gates, having fish and chip at Joe’s Stone Crab (Forum Shops at Caesars) on Monday...

Actress Sarah Hyland of "Modern Family," dining at Lavo (Palazzo) on Sunday...

NBA veteran Baron Davis, with fellow basketball players at Lavo (Palazzo) on Sunday...

Rapper 50 Cent, dining at Trattoria del Lupo (Mandalay Bay) on Saturday...

Actors and best friends Leonard DiCaprio and Toby McGuire, dining at CUT (Palazzo) on Saturday with friends...

At the Amir Khan-Danny Garcia fight at Mandalay Bay on Saturday: boxing figures Oscar De La Hoya, Bernard Hopkins and Paulie Malignaggi and Los Angeles Lakers veteran Metta World Peace, formerly known as Ronald Artest...

Actress Hayden Panettiere, with football pro Mark Sanchez at Marquee (Cosmopolitan) on Friday...

At Marquee (Cosmopolitan) on Monday: Kobe Bryant with Boston Celtics Jermaine O'Neal and Miss Nevada USA 2012 Jade Kelsall, professional poker player Antonio Esfandiari and Kris Jenner...

Among the celebrities and poker players in the main event of the 43rd annual World Series of Poker at the Rio: Jason Alexander, Jennifer Tilly, Jonathan Duhamel, Phil Ivey, Ben Lamb, Sam Trickett and the winner of One Drop, Antonio Esfandiari and Australian cricket player Shane Warne with fiancée Elizabeth Hurley...

"American Idol" winner Taylor Hicks, dining with his band and some friends at Old Homestead Steakhouse (Caesars Palace) on Sunday...

Watching the Chael Sonnen, Anderson Silva UFC fight at the MGM Grand Garden on Saturday: NBA MVP Lebron James, actors Wilmer Valderrama, Steven Seagal and Channing Tatum with this wife Jenna Dewan, reality stars Rob Dyrdek and Big Black of "Fantasy Factory," Jenna Jameson, retired NFL players Willie McGinest, and Michael Irvin, Dallas Cowboys Demarco Murray, shooting guard Mike Miller for the Miami Heat, UFC champions Junior Dos Santos, Georges St-Pierre, Jon Jones, Carlos Condit and Dominick Cruz, retired American MMA fighters Randy Couture, Chuck Liddell and Urijah Faber, current Women's Bantamweight Champion Ronda Rousey, MMA fighters Dan Henderson, Cain Velasquez, Alistair Overeem, BJ Penn and Wanderlei Silva...

Partying at Tao (Venetian) on Saturday : NBA pros Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder, Deron Williams of the New Jersey Nets, Andre Iguodala of the Philadelphia 76ers, Dejuan Blair of the San Antonio Spurs and football players Stanford Routt of the Kansas City Chiefs and Ray Rice of the Baltimore Ravens...

Wilmer Valderrama, dining with UFC ring girl Arianny Celeste at Tao Asian Bistro (Venetian) before partying in Marquee's Boombox Room (Cosmopolitan) with singer Omarion, Pussycat Doll Lauren Bennett and friends...

Eve Hewson, daughter of singer Bono, celebrating her 21st birthday at Tao Asian Bistro (Venetian) with her father and a large group of friends...

English football players Joe Hart and Joleon Lescott, dining with their girlfriends at Old Homestead Steakhouse (Caesars Palace) on Friday...

Lebron James arriving at Marquee (Cosmopolitan) Friday with an entourage that included his personal DJ. They settled into the Boombox Room...

UFC Middleweight champion Anderson Silva, dining at Wolfgang Puck Bar & Grill (MGM Grand) on Saturday...

Reality star Dana Wilkey from "The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills," with a friend at Tao Asian Bistro (Venetian) on Friday...

R&B singer and producer Jason Derülo, watching "Celine" (Caesars) with "American Idol" winner Jordin Sparks on Friday...

Actor Nicolas Cage, shooting at Guns & Ammo on Thursday with a friend...

1980's pop singer Debbie Gibson, with her boyfriend Dr. Rutledge Taylor at Joe's Stone Crab on Thursday...

Rapper Reverend Run of Run DMC, with family at Wolfgang Puck's Riva (Venetian) on Wednesday...

Actress Kathy Griffin of Bravo TV's "Kathy," attending "Celine" (Caesars) on Wednesday...

Actor James Wood, with friends at 35 Steaks + Martinis (Hard Rock Hotel) on Saturday...

Recording artist Chili of TLC, shopping at Sugar Factory (Paris) on Saturday...

Former "X Factor" judge Cheryl Cole, at Encore Beach Club (Encore) on Saturday, visiting with mentor and producer will.i.am of the Black Eyed Peas, who was guest DJ...

Co-host Brooke Burke of "Dancing with the Stars" and actor David Charvet, getting lunch with their five children and nanny at Wolfgang Puck's Spago (Caesars Palace) on Thursday...

Actor George Eads from "CSI: Las Vegas," dining at Spago (Caesars Palace) on Wednesday...

Comedian Dave Chappelle of "The Chappelle Show," eating at N9ne Steakhouse (Palms) on Tuesday with friends and family...

“American Idol” winner Taylor Hicks, dining with his band at Bally’s Steakhouse (Ballys) on Sunday...

Actress Ginnifer Goodwin and actor Josh Dallas from "Once Upon A Time," attending the late show of "Viva Elvis" (Aria) on Saturday...

NFL analyst Tedy Bruschi and former linebacker for the New England Patriots, celebrating his 15th wedding anniversary with his wife Heidi at Joe's Stone Crab (Caesars Palace) on Saturday...

Judge Simon Majumdar of "The Next Iron Chef," host Alton Brown and Chef Geoffrey Zakarian, also a judge on "Chopped," dining at Wolfgang Puck's Bar and Grill (MGM Grand) on Monday...

Actress Francia Raisa of "The Secret Life of the American Teenager," clubbing at Tao (Venetian) with friends and soaking up some rays at Tao Beach (Venetian) on Saturday...

Rapper Flavor Flav, MMA legend Frank Trigg and friends, chilling in a cabana at Marquee Dayclub (Cosmopolitan) on Saturday...

"The Hangover" actor Justin Bartha, dining with friends at Tao Asian Bistro (Venetian) before heading over to Marquee (Cosmopolitan) on Saturday...

Los Angeles Clipppers star Chris Paul, basking in the sun at Tao Beach (Venetian) on Saturday...

Former "American Idol" contestants Taylor Hicks and Elliot Yamin partying at Tao (Venetian) on Saturday night...

Actress Eva Amurri Martino with a group of friends at a VIP table at Lavo (Palazzo) on Saturday...

Former Pussycat Doll Nicole Scherzinger, soaking up some sun at Tao Beach (Venetian) on Friday...

"CSI: Miami" television producer Jerry Bruckheimer, taking in the club scene at Marquee (Cosmopolitan) on Friday...

UK soccer player James Beattie, partying at Marquee (Cosmopolitan) with former teammates and friends on Friday...

"Chippendales" guest host Joey Lawrence, hanging out at a VIP table at Tao Nightclub (Venetian) on Friday...

Fitness expert Bob Harper, a trainer on "The Biggest Loser," attending the early performance of "Ka" (MGM Grand) with a friend on Thursday...

NHL Edmonton Oilers center Ryan Nugent-Hopkins, taking in the late showing of "Ka" (MGM Grand) with his parents on Thursday...

Carrie Underwood's husband and NHL Nashville Predators star Mike Fisher, dining at Yellowtail Japanese Restaurant & Lounge (Bellagio) on Thursday...

Edmonton Oilers hockey player Jordan Eberle, attending the early performance of "O" (Bellagio) on Thursday...

At Surrender (Encore) on Wednesday, after the NHL Awards show: "Modern Family" star Eric Stonestreet, NHL legend Mark Messier, actors Matthew Perry and Kevin Connolly, former “Dancing with the Stars” champion Cheryl Burke, and NHL'ers Brendan Shannahan, Anson Carter, Pekke Rinne of the Nashville Predators, New York Rangers standout Henrik Lundqvist, who won the Vezina Award Wednesday for “best goalie;" Adam Henrique of the New Jersey Devils and Daniel Alfredsson of the Ottawa Senators...

New Found Glory's lead guitarist Chad Gilbert, taking in the early show of "Ka" (MGM Grand) with friends on Tuesday...

"True Blood" star Ryan Kwanten, celebrating Father's Day with his parents at Lavo on Sunday...

Green Bay Packers linebacker Clay Matthews, dining with friends at N9ne (Palms) on Saturday...

Chicago Bulls Rip Hamilton, with friends at Surrender Nightclub (Encore) on Friday...

Metallica drummer Lars Ulrich, dining at N9ne Steakhouse (Palms) Wednesday...

Hollywood actor Taye Diggs and "Vegas! The Show" performer Eric Jordan Young, attending "Phantom-The Las Vegas Spectacular" (Venetian) Monday...

Flamingo headliner Donny Osmond, stopping by "Dancing with the Stars: Live in Las Vegas" (Tropicana) Friday...

British-Irish boy band One Direction, chatting with Gordon Ramsay at Gordon Ramsay Steak (Paris) on Saturday...

Watching the Manny Pacquiao, Timothy Bradley, Jr. fight at the MGM Grand Garden on Saturday: Actress Anna Paquin, actors Jeremy Renner, Mark Wahlberg, Stephen Moyer, Luke Wilson, and Jason Biggs, EXTRA TV host Mario Lopez, Apl.de.ap, and Taboo of The Black Eyed Peas, One Direction singer Zayn Malik, and "American Idol" runner-up Jessica Sanchez, professional boxers Amir Khan, Andre Ward, Brandon Rios, Chad Dawson, Juan Manuel Marquez, Roy Jones, Julio Cesar Chavez, Jr., Kelly Pavlik, and Nonito Donaire, former world champion boxer Mike Tyson, retired boxer Shane Mosley, NBA analyst Reggie Miller, San Francisco 49ers Brandon Jacobs and Frank Gore and Andrew Bynum of the Los Angeles Lakers...

NFL quarterback Donovan McNabb, dining his father and friends Saturday night at the Eiffel Tower Restaurant (Paris)...

Los Angeles Lakers center Andrew Bynum, dining at Sociey Cafe (Encore) with friends on Saturday.

Former NBA star and current analyst Jalen Rose, partying with friends at Surrender Nightclub (Encore) on Friday.

Smash Mouth lead singer Steve Harwell, with friends at Surrender (Encore) on Friday.

At the Thursday grand opening of Mizumi, the Devin Hashimoto-helmed Japanese restaurant at Wynn Las Vegas: Steve and Andrea Wynn, Paris Hilton, actress Ashley Tisdale of “High School Musical” fame, DJ Afrojack, Hall of Fame boxing promoter Bob Arum and his wife Lovee, Larry and Camille Ruvo, longtime Wynn attorney Jim Jimmerson, poker star Daniel Negreanu, "Dancing With the Stars" pro Cheryl Burke, Bill and Lynn Weidner, and fashion model/aspiring singer Nick Hissom, the son of Andrea Wynn. He’s in town to perform at EDC with the Fabricated Superstars, the electronic dance music DJ duo who collaborated with him on his debut single “Killin Tonight.”

British boxing champion Amir Khan, spotted with his friend and Arsenal footballer, Marouane Chamakh, at Surrender Nightclub (Encore) on Wednesday.

Actor Kunal Nayyar, of CBS's sitcom "The Big Bang Theory," taking in the early performance of KÀ (MGM) Tuesday with his wife Neha Kapur, Miss India 2006, and a friend.

At The Palazzo’s Azure pool venue on Saturday for the Simon G. Jewelry event: George Clooney’s girlfriend Stacy Keibler, Pamela Anderson with former "Zumanity" performer Jesus Villa, Giuliana Rancic, Melissa Rycroft and husband Tye Strickland, Cheryl Burke, Audrina Patridge, Lisa Rinna and Harry Hamlin, Gilles and Carole Marini, Patti Stanger of “Millionaire Matchmaker,” celeb stylist and member of the E!’s “Fashion Police” George Kotsiopoulos, among others...

Clinton Portis, former running back for the Washington Redskins, dining at N9ne Steakhouse (Palms) with a friend...

Stacy Keibler, model and longtime girlfriend of George Clooney, dining at Joe's Stone Crab (Caesars) with friends Saturday...

Melissa Rycroft and Tye Strickland, of CMT reality show "Melissa & Tye", dining at TAO Asian Bistro Friday...

Gretchen Christine Rossi, of "The Real Housewives of Orange County", dined at LAVO Restaurant Friday...

Jerry Springer, dining solo at Wolfgang Puck's Spago (Forum Shops at Caesars) Thursday...

Clint Howard, actor and younger brother of famous actor/director Ron Howard, attending Terry Fator: "Ventriloquism in Concert" (Mirage) Thursday...

"Superbad" actor Christopher Mintz-Plasse and System of a Down drummer, John Dolmayan, attended the Incubus concert at The Joint inside Hard Rock Hotel & Casino on Saturday...

Luol Deng of the Chicago Bulls, partied at a VIP table at Marquee Nightclub Monday night with friends...

At UFC 146 at the MGM Grand Garden on Saturday: Academy Award winner Charlize Theron, Mark Ballas of “Dancing with the Stars"; NFL All-Pro running back Steven Jackson, DeMarco Murray of the Dallas Cowboys, Larry Fitzgerald of the Arizona Cardinals, former NFL star Herschel Walker, and rapper MC Hammer, actress Jaime Pressley, BMX legend TJ Lavin, Joe Thornton of the San Jose Sharks, and UFC personalities Brock Lesnar, Chael Sonnen, Chuck Liddell, Forrest Griffin, Johny Hendricks, Stephan Bonnar, Urijah Faber, Dominick Cruz, Michael Chiesa and Al Iaquinta...

Ian Asbury, lead singer of The Cult, getting hitched to Aimee Nash, 35, of Australia Saturday at the Little Church of the West. He is 50. Both wore all black…

"Dancing with the Stars" pro and reigning champion Peta Murgatroyd, cozy in a cabana Saturday with fellow dancing pro Maksim Chmerkovski at Encore Beach Club at Wynn Las Vegas. Murgatroyd and her partner Green Bay Packers wide receiver Donald Driver in Tuesday’s finale…

Teen singer Ellie Smith, singing the National Anthem at the Los Angeles Dodgers game Thursday. Smith, 15, has performed for the Dodgers almost a dozen times since she was 9. She’s taken her anti-bullying campaign song " Don't Let It Get To You" to more than 60 schools in the valley...

Rapper 50 Cent and boxing legend Floyd Mayweather were spotted chatting with singer/songwriter Trey Songz at TAO (Venetian) Friday...

"Peepshow" star Holly Madison, celebrating Memorial Day Weekend at Chateau Nightclub & Gardens (Paris Las Vegas) Friday with a group of 20 that included boyfriend Pasquale Rotelli, founder of Electric Daisy Carnival and CEO of Insomniac Events...

President of the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) Dana White dined at N9NE (Palms) with friends Friday...

NFL stars Shaun Phillips, Reggie Bush, Nic Harris and Kassim Osgood partied at Encore Beach Club (Encore) to check out Sebastian Ingrosso's DJ set...

Pop star Pink and Carey Hart, taking in the early “O” show (Bellagio) on Thursday....

TV personality Jerry Springer, hosting a red carpet welcome Wednesday outside Planet Hollywood Resort for the 51 Miss USA 2012 contestants. Alyssa Campanella, the reigning Miss USA, and the new challengers for the tiara had lunch at Sugar Factory American Brasserie (Paris)…

R&B star Usher, pre-screening his yet-to-be-released album and video clips Saturday for RCA workers at N9ne (Palms Casino). …

Former boxer Mike Tyson, with friends at the Men of Soul concert (Cannery) on Saturday night. …

Dr. Drew Pinsky, host of “Celebrity Rehab with Dr. Drew,” taking in a performance of Elton John’s “The Million Dollar Piano” at The Colosseum (Caesars Palace) Saturday. Also spotted: Wayne Rooney, striker for Premier League club Manchester United and the England national soccer team. …

Justin Bieber, drawing a crowd of onlookers as he shopped at CRSVR Sneaker Boutique inside The Cosmopolitan on Saturday. He was in town for the Billboard Music Awards. ...

Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban and Mavs’ All-Star Dirk Nowitzki, in an Encore Beach Club cabana on Saturday, part of Nowitzki’s bachelor party. …

“Dancing With the Stars” pro Karina Smirnoff, hosting a pre-awards party at Tabu (MGM Grand) on Saturday friends, including Carson Kressley of the Las Vegas version of “Dancing with the Stars” (Tropicana) and Jonathon and Drew Scott from the hit TV show “Property Brothers.”…

At Marquee Day Club (Cosmopolitan) on Saturday: Nikki Reed of “Twilight,” celebrating her 24th birthday. Emmanuelle Chriqui of “Entourage” stopped by to pass along a birthday greeting. Reed was also spotted dining at Tao (Venetian) on Friday night with her husband, Paul McDonald of "American Idol" fame, and friends including actress Alexa Vega of “Spy Kids.” Also on the scene: British singer/songwriter Taio Cruz. …

At Lavo (Palazzo) on Saturday: recording artist Miguel, hosting a pre-awards party in celebration of his Billboard Award nominations for Top R&B Artist and Top R&B Song. Miguel jumped on stage and sang a medley of four songs. Dining at Lavo: Angie Everhart, with her boyfriend; Kristina Guerrero from E! News and Reed, with her party. …

"Good Day LA" host Lauren Sanchez, performing at Pussycat Dolls Burlesque Saloon (Planet Hollywood) on Saturday.

Carson Kressley and Sabrina Bryan from “Dancing with the Stars” stopped by Piranha Boutique Nightclub on Saturday. …

Soccer star Wayne Rooney of Manchester United, with his wife Friday at Surrender (Encore). Also spotted: Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban, in town celebrating the bachelor party of Mavericks star Dirk Nowitski. Cuban was also spotted chatting with Wayne Rooney, who was at the next table. …

Baltimore Ravens players Ed Reed, Jimmy Smith and Lardarius Webb, hanging out Friday at Chateau (Paris). …

Benjamin Flajnik, winner of “The Bachelor” earlier this year, at La Cave Wine and Food Hideaway (Wynn) on Wednesday. At another table, David Tutera, party planner to the stars and host of the reality TV series, “My Fair Wedding” on Wetv, lunching in the Garden Lounge…

Olympics figure skater Scott Hamilton, the gold medalist at the Sarajevo in 1984, backstage prior to Terry Fator’s show at The Mirage on Tuesday…

NFL Hall of Fame quarterback Dan Fouts, at Piero’s Italian Cuisine on Tuesday, mingling with a delegation of San Diego Chargers executives, coach Norv Turner, players Takeo Spikes and Ryan Mathews and members of the cheer squad. Chargers owner Dean Spanos owns a home at Park Towers.

Kendall and Kylie Jenner, the youngest sisters of the Kardashian family took in a performance of “Love” (The Mirage) on Monday. The sisters dined at Stack before heading to the theater. …

Christopher Mintz-Plasse, best known for his role as McLovin in “Superbad,” with friends at Lavo (Palazzo) Sunday night. …

Hip-hop star Drake, with friends and family Saturday at Lavo (Palazzo). …

Reggie Bush, Miami Dolphins running back, hanging out at Lavo (Palazzo) Saturday. …

Hip-hop pioneer Too Short, partying Saturday with friends at Encore Beach Club (Encore). …

Legendary illusionist Siegfried Fischbacher, wearing an eyepatch Friday at the Señoras of Excellence and Señores of Distinction event at Caesars Palace. Accompanying him was magic partner Roy Horn. They were there to support longtime personal manager Lynette Chappell, who appeared in Siegfried & Roy's magic show. ...

Mariah Carey, Nelly, 50 Cent, Busta Rhymes, Lil Wayne, Birdman and Steve Lawrence, laying down tracks at the Palms Casino Resort recording studio. …

Celebrity chef and TV personality Gordon Ramsay, partying with friends Friday at Surrender (Encore). Ramsay and his group arrived at midnight and took over the bungalows. …

Jamaican pop/reggae artist Sean Paul, dining and hanging out at Tao (Venetian) Friday. …

Chef Gordon Ramsay with friends, hanging out and drinking cocktails at Tao (Venetian) Thursday. …

Star chef Wolfgang Puck, honored at a Vegas Uncork’d lunch by Bon Appetit on Thursday that marked his 20th year since opening his first Las Vegas restaurant, Spago in the Forum Shops at Caesars. He’s often credited with igniting the city’s fine dining revolution. He was joined at the lunch by chefs who have worked for and with him over the years. Puck also took part in the saber ceremony in front of Caesars Palace before returning to Los Angeles to cater George Clooney’s $40,000-a-plate fundraiser for President Obama. …

NBA veteran Grant Hill, hosting a birthday celebration at Lavo (Palazzo) for the wife, Tamia, an R&B singer. They also showed up at Surrender (Encore) .Also at Surrender: celebrity chef Bobby Flay, in a bungalow. …

At Wednesday’s grand opening of the Planet Hollywood restaurant, in the former BOA Steakhouse space: Planet Hollywood founder Robert Earl, Harrah’s executive David Hoenemeyer, Stratosphere headliner Frankie Moreno, with his brothers Tony and Ricky Moreno, Jeff Timmons, Angel Porrino and Tony Hernandez of “Absinthe,” Thunder from Down Under, Paul Shortino, Nathan Burton, Ricardo Laguna and Murray Sawchuck. …

Ralph Johnson, a founding member of Earth, Winder & Fire, checking out Catfish Alley restaurant Tuesday on the Strip. …

Steven Jackson, running back for the St. Louis Rams, dining with a friend Wednesday at N9ne Steakhouse (Palms Casino). …

Professional boxer Floyd Mayweather and his team, dining Tuesday at Wolfgang Puck Pizzeria & Cucina (Crystals at CityCenter). The group was joined by rapper 50 Cent. …

Pop star Richard Andrew, better known as Outasight, drinking, dancing and performing at Pure (Caesars) Tuesday night …

Actor and comedian Kevin Hart, dining at N9ne (Palms Hotel Casino) Sunday with a large group of friends. Also spotted: NBA star Tyreke Evans of the Sacramento Kings. …

Pop star Pink and husband Carey Hart, celebrating at XS (Encore) on Saturday after receiving the Legends & Heroes Industry Leader Award at the supercross finale event at Sam Boyd Stadium. Also at XS: San Diego Chargers defensive star Shaun Phillips, celebrating his 31st birthday with a large group that included Buffalo Bills linebacker Shawne Merriman. At another table: retired baseball slugger Sammy Sosa, with friends. ...

At Tao Beach (The Venetian) on Saturday: Joe Jonas, dining with Tao owners and a group that included Vinny Guadagnino from “Jersey Shore.” Also spotted: DJ Samantha Ronson and actresses Jessica Szohr and Krysten Ritter (with her boyfriend Brian Geraghty). ...

At Tao nightclub: legendary ring announcer Michael Buffer, delivering his “Let’s Get Ready to Rumble” line to start the party with DJ Vice. Rapper Busta Rhymes, in the club to surprise manager Chris Lighty on his birthday, sang many of his hits. Also there: Jonas, Ronson, Szohr and Guadagnino. ...

Carmen Electra, celebrating her 40th birthday belatedly at Crazy Horse III. ...

Maria Menounos and Derek Hough, partners on “Dancing With the Stars,” at the pool at Mandalay Bay for the Cinco de Mayo launch of Bud Light Lime Lima-a-Rita. ...

NFL legend Roger Staubach, taking in “Vegas! The Show” Saturday at Saxe Theater inside Miracle Mile Shops at Planet Hollywood. ...

Kathy Coleman from “Land of the Lost,” at Terry Fator’s show at The Mirage on Saturday night. ...

Hip-hop sensation Fat Joe, dining with his wife Lorena, at Social House (Crystals at CityCenter) before performing at LAX (Luxor) on Saturday. …

Former NBA player Calvin Booth of the Sacramento Kings, with his wife Keisha and Heather Chadwell, former contestant on “Rock of Love” Saturday at Social House (Crystals at CityCenter). …

Rapper Common, dining Saturday at Joe's Stone Crab (Forum Shops at Caesars) with friends while in town for a performance. …

Spotted at the Floyd Mayweather vs. Miguel Cotto Super Welterweight Championship fight Saturday at the MGM Grand Garden Arena: singer Justin Bieber , Rapper Diddy , musician Joe Jonas , singer Mariah Carey , TV host and actor Nick Cannon , rapper 50 Cent , rapper Flo-Rida , actress Anna Pacquin , rapper Lil Wayne , comedian Brad Garrett , actor Pierce Brosnan , boxing champ Oscar De La Hoya , boxer Evander Holyfield, former boxer Mike Tyson and more. …

Rapper Busta Rhymes, taking in the scene late Friday night at Tao (Venetian). …

Internet sensation iJustine, dining Friday at Lavo (Palazzo) with friends. …

Seth Gold of "Hardcore Pawn," taking in a performance of Terry Fator's show (The Mirage). ...

Boxing legends Sugar Ray Leonard and Thomas "The Hitman" Hearns, having drinks at Rhumbar patio (The Mirage) Friday evening. The two former world champions also attended the Floyd Mayweather vs. Miguel Cotto fight weigh-in at the MGM Grand Garden Arena. …

Professional boxer Miguel Cotto, in town for his Saturday night fight against Floyd Mayweather, dining at Wolfgang Puck Bar & Grill (MGM) Friday. Cotto lost the match in a 12-round unanimous decision. …

Oscar De La Hoya, at Carlos Santana's opening night show Wednesday at House of Blues Las Vegas. …

Twelvecontestants from NBC's "Escape Routes,"flying between New York-New York and Monte Carlo on Tuesday on a nearly 1,000-foot zip line that started at a height of more than 400 feet. It was shot for the series finale, at 8 p.m. Saturday.

"America's Got Talent" host Jerry Springer, having breakfast at Nathan's Famous Hot Dogs on Wednesday at Bally's...

T-Pain and his wife, Amber, with friends at "O" (Bellagio) on Wednesday...

Survivor host Jeff Probst, dining Sunday with family and friends at STK at The Cosmopolitan. …

Comedian and actor George Lopez, grabbing breakfast Sunday morning at Society Café Encore. …

Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson, dining at Marquee Dayclub (Cosmopolitan) Saturday. …

Spotted at Tao (Venetian) Saturday night: actress Minka Kelly. ...

Rocker Jon Bon Jovi, sipping wine with friends Friday night at the Library in Marquee (Cosmopolitan). …

Actress Amy Adams, dining Friday at Tao (Venetian) with friends. …

Spotted at Tao (Venetian) on Thursday: Lennox Lewis, former boxer and heavyweight champion, dining with friends including Rohan and Karen Marley, children of late reggae music icon Bob Marley. Also spotted was Steven Jackson of the St. Louis Rams. ...

Reality stars Scout Masterson and Bill Horn, also known as “The Guncles” from “Tori & Dean: Home Sweet Hollywood,” dining Thursday at Lavo (Palazzo). …

Actor/model Tyrese Gibson, dining Thursday at Joe’s Stone Crab (Forum Shops at Caesars) with a group of business executives. Gibson is in town for CinemaCon 2012. …

Oscar winner Nicolas Cage, at the Nevada SPCA's second annual Champagne & High Tea at Spanish Trail Country Club on Thursday. Cage shared a story about his dog that died. The event featured a red carpet walk for older, adoptable dogs. …

Celebrity Chef Gordon Ramsey, dining at Scott Conant's Scarpetta (The Cosmopolitan) Thursday after stopping in to check out the progress on his new restaurant, Gordon Ramsey Steak. Ramsey and his business partners grabbed a late-night bite …

Ben Lyons, reporter for “Extra,” with a female friend at Lavo (Palazzo) on Wednesday …

Former heavyweight boxing champ Lennox Lewis at Minus5 Ice Bar (Shops at Mandalay Place) on Wednesday with Rohan Marley, son of reggae legend Bob Marley, and sister Karen Marley. …

Jake Pavelka of "The Bachelor," dining at Joe's Stone Crab (Forum Shops at Caesars) on Wednesday. …

James Franco, dining at Tao (Venetian) with friends Tuesday night …

Spotted Monday at the opening night presentation of CinemaCon 2012 in The Colosseum (Caesars Palace): Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson, Chris Rock and Chris Pine. Featuring previews of select upcoming movie releases, the night also featured Sacha Baron Cohen dressed as Admiral General Aladeen from his upcoming film, “The Dictator” …

Nicolas Cage, having breakfast Sunday with his son at The Original Pancake House on Charleston and Decatur boulevards. Swarmed by fans, he accommodated their photo and autograph requests. ...

Sam Nazarian, the Los Angeles entrepreneur whose nightclub empire includes the Sahara and Hyde Bellagio, having lunch with friends Sunday at Dom DeMarco's Pizzeria & Bar in Summerlin. ...

Kody and Meri Brown of the reality show “Sister Wives”, celebrating their 22nd wedding anniversary Saturday at “Titanic: The Artifact Exhibition” (Luxor). The Browns, who moved to Las Vegas in 2011, spent two hours touring the exhibit. …

Florence Welch of Florence + the Machine, celebrating her Las Vegas performance at an after-party Saturday in Marquee's BoomBox in The Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas. After the party, she boarded her tour bus and returned to Palm Springs for a Sunday appearance at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival. ...

Mixed martial arts star and actress Gina Carano, celebrating her 30th birthday as a host at Tabú Ultra Lounge (MGM Grand) on Saturday. ...

R&B singer-songwriter Ne-Yo, attending "Mystere" (Treasure Island) on Saturday with his fiancée, Monyetta Shaw. It was his first Cirque experience. ...

Singer/author Deana Martin, attending the unveiling of the bronze sculpture of her father, Rat Pack icon Dean Martin, at the Regis Galerie in The Grand Canal Shoppes at The Venetian on Saturday. …

Spotted celebrating the launch of the second season of Marquee Dayclub (Cosmopolitan) Saturday: DeAngelo Hall of the Washington Redskins, reality TV star Brody Jenner and members of the Party Rock crew, who hopped up on the DJ booth to entertain the crowd.

Former boy band member Lance Bass of *NSync, dining at Tao (Venetian) Saturday with friends …

Reality TV star Brody Jenner, dining and partying at Lavo (Palazzo) Friday night …

Actor Johnny Depp, attending a performance of Elton John’s “Million Dollar Piano” (Caesars Palace) on Wednesday …

Heavyweight boxing champion Evander Holyfield, dining Sunday night at Wolfgang Puck Bar & Grill (MGM) …

Garry Marshall, director, writer, and producer, watching Sir Elton John perform during “The Million Dollar Piano” (Caesars Palace) on Sunday ...

Mötley Crüe star Vince Neil, dining Saturday at Joe’s Stone Crab (Forum Shops at Caesars) with friends …

Spotted at Saturday’s performance of Elton John’s “The Million Dollar Piano” (Caesars): Les Moonves, CBS chief executive officer, and wife Julie Chen. With Moonves and Chen were singer-songwriter Carol Bayer Sager and her husband, businessman Bob Daly. Also spotted was Nigel Lythgoe, producer for “American Idol” and creator of “So You Think You Can Dance.”

Singer Mark McGrath, best known as the lead singer for Sugar Ray, dining Friday at Tao (Venetian) with friends for a bachelor party …

"The Social Network" star Joe Mazzello and producer Bryan Singer, dining Friday at Tao (Venetian) before hitting the nightclub …

Canadian hockey player Ryan O'Byrne, hanging out with friends and Colorado Avalanche teammates Friday at Marquee (Cosmopolitan) …

Washington Redskins owner Daniel Snyder and head coach Mike Shanahan, dining Thursday at Joe’s Stone Crab (Forum Shops at Caesars) with friends before heading for an afternoon of golf …

R&B singer Brandy, dining with her boyfriend Wednesday at Martorano’s inside the Rio …

"The Price is Right" host Drew Carey, joining Lon Bronson on stage Saturday at Ovation (Green Valley Ranch) to sing backup vocals of the Monkees' classic "(I'm Not Your) Steppin' Stone." Also at the show: jazz headliner Michael Lington and Yellow Brick Road's Brody Dolyniuk, who earlier performed his symphonic rock show at Henderson Pavilion…

Academy Award nominee Jesse Eisenberg, who played Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg in “The Social Network,” chatting backstage with Penn & Teller (Rio) on Saturday…

Adult film icon Jenna Jameson, celebrating her 38th birthday at Tabu Ultra Lounge (MGM Grand) on Saturday with husband/UFC personality Tito Ortiz among a group of friends.

Quiet Riot’s Paul Shortino, joining Sherry St. Germain & The Lost Vanguards as a special guest Saturday night inside The Lounge (Palms Casino Resort) …

Professional boxer Floyd Mayweather Jr. and rapper 50 Cent, dining at N9NE Steakhouse (Palms Casino Resort) Friday evening with a large group of friends …

UFC President Dana White, dining Friday night at N9NE Steakhouse (Palms Resort) …

The Plain White T’s, the pop-rock band, hanging out at Rain (Palms Casino Resort) Friday evening …

“Glee” star Matthew Morrison, dining at Tao (Venetian) with friends Friday night. The group also hit the club …

Comedian Bill Maher and actor Craig Robinson, known for his role on “The Office,” hanging out Thursday at Tao (Venetian) …

Daric Barton of the Oakland A’s, catching Terry Fator’s show (Mirage) on Wednesday night …

Regina King, taking in the exhibits at the Mob Museum on Wednesday …

Retired NBA All-Star Gary Peyton, at Sapphire strip club for Monday’s Final Four telecast, helping coach the girls during a free throw contest …

Ben Flajnik, “The Bachelor," dining at Joe’s Stone Crab (Forum Shops at Caesars) on Monday night with friends …

Rapper Coolio, partying Monday night at Marquee (Cosmopolitan) …

Singer/songwriter Dallas Davidson, participating in Celebrity Karaoke at Marquee on Monday …

Country singer Martina McBride, dining Monday at Wolfgang Puck Bar & Grill inside MGM …

Country star Luke Bryan, rushing to the aid of a woman who fell on a sidewalk as he was arriving at the MGM Grand Monday to go backstage for the Academy of Music Awards ...

Ben Flajnik, the season 16 bachelor in “The Bachelor,” at the Wine & Spirits Wholesalers of America convention over the weekend, promoting his California winery Envolve …

Dennis Rodman, raining cash in Misura, the men’s store at MGM Grand, over the weekend, days after reports that he was broke …

Country star Toby Keith, with family at Toby Keith’s I Love This Bar & Grill at Harrah’s on Sunday night. Keith performed 12 songs for the crowd as the restaurant toasted to his Academy of Country Music Awards win …

“Fashion Star” judge Nicole Richie, partying with girlfriends Sunday at XS (Encore). Richie and her friends danced before quickly jumping onstage…

Spotted at Brad Garrett’s Comedy Club (MGM) on Saturday: “Weeds” actress Elizabeth Perkins and TV legend Dick Clark ...

Entertainment reporter Ben Lyons, dining with friends at Tao (Venetian) Saturday. The group, including Lady Gaga’s DJ, DJ White Shadow, and internet sensation Fabrizio Goldstein, also known as “Fat Jew,” headed to Lavo (Palazzo) afterward …

Actress Beth Behrs from the sitcom “2 Broke Girls,” dining with friends at Lavo (Palazzo) on Saturday …

Singer Dev, with friends at Marquee (Cosmopolitan) Saturday …

“Eastbound and Down” star Danny McBride, with co-star Steve Little and comedy writer-actor-director Jorma Taccone on Sunday at Society Café (Encore) …

Former MLB player and All-Star Joe Torre and country singer Carrie Underwood, dining in separate parties at The Country Club (Wynn) Saturday. Underwood is in town for the Academy of Country Music Awards …

Actress Nicole Kidman and her husband, country star Keith Urban, hanging out Saturday at The Verandah at The Four Seasons. The couple is in town for the Academy of Country Music Awards …

Reality star Kate Gosselin, dining Saturday with a guest at Wolfgang Puck Bar & Grill (MGM) …

Entertainment legend Tony Orlando, celebrating his 68th birthday Saturday with a backstage visit with Garth Brooks at the Wynn...

Sherry St. Germain & The Lost Vanguards, kicking off their residency Saturday at The Lounge (Palms). The group was joined by Frankie Moreno and Mike Reno from rock band Loverboy …

Toby Keith and Roger Clemens, teaming up on stage at Keith's I Love This Bar & Grill (Harrah's) late Friday. They performed about eight songs together …

Spotted at Marquee (Cosmopolitan) Friday: Lauren “Lo” Bosworth from “The Hills,” Houston Texans wide receiver Andre Johnson with friends, cornerback Patrick Robinson of the New Orleans Saints and Morgan Burnett, safety for the Green Bay Packers …

Melissa Rycroft of “The Bachelor” and “Dancing with the Stars,” dining Friday at Tao (Venetian) with a friend while husband Tye Strickland dined and partied nearby with friends for a bachelor party …

At Friday's gala for the Michael Jordan Celebrity Invitational at Aria: Jordan, at the main table with his fiancée, Yvette Prieto, Aria President Bill McBeath, hockey legend Mario Lemieux and Toni Kukoc. Also at the event: Ne-Yo, Roger Clemens, John Smoltz, Joey Fatone, Brett Hull, Penny Hardaway, Marshall Faulk, Andre Johnson and Brandi Chastain. Entertainment included hip-hop violinist Josh Vietti, Cedric the Entertainer and Ne-Yo ...

Mike Tomlin, head coach of the Pittsburgh Steelers, dining at Wolfgang Puck Bar & Grill (MGM) on Friday night. Country singers Jake Owen and Chris Young were also spotted at the restaurant …

Spotted at Tao (Venetian) Thursday: Rapper Busta Rhymes, performing his hits for the crowd. Coolio, giving a freestyle performance for a group of club goers. Melissa Rycroft and her husband, Tye Strickland, dining while filming for their CMT show …

First Lady Michelle Obama, daughters Sasha and Malia, and Obama’s mother Marian Robinson, attending KÀ (MGM) after dining at Craftsteak in the MGM on Thursday. The first family is in Las Vegas on a personal family trip around the western U.S. The family watched from a private booth and thanked the staff after the show …

Retired NFL football player Jerome “The Bus” Bettis, dining with friends at STK at The Cosmopolitan on Thursday ...

Spotted at Viva Elvis (Aria) Thursday: Actor and game show host Alan Thicke took in the performance while boxing champion Sugar Ray Leonard watched with his wife and friends …

Canadian Olympic gold medalist Kaillie Humphries, the bobsled champion, with her family Thursday at Tryst (Wynn). Humphries was in town for the weekend celebrating the birthday and pending nuptials of her sister, Shelby ...

Andre Johnson of the Houston Texans and Santana Moss of the Washington Redskins, chatting with fans Wednesday night at Lavo (Palazzo) …

Marshall Faulk, NFL Hall of Fame running back, with friends at Lavo (Palazzo) Wednesday …

Joey Fatone, former *NSYNC member and “The Price Is Right Live!” Las Vegas host, hanging out at Pure (Caesars) Tuesday …

“Saturday Night Live" actress Rachel Dratch, catching the early performance of “Love” (Mirage) on Saturday …

“Saturday Night Live” head writer Seth Meyers, dining Friday at BLT Burger inside The Mirage …

Boxing legend and MGM headliner Mike Tyson, posing Friday in front of MGM’s gold lion in promotion of his new show …

Singer Bruno Mars, dining at Terra Rossa Italian (Red Rock Resort) on Thursday night …

Country singer Matt Stillwell, marrying his girlfriend, Lindsey Crawford, on Thursday at the Vegas Weddings chapel, on Third Street …

Comedian Carlos Mencia, with friends and family Thursday night at Lavo (Palazzo) …

Artists from the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, celebrating their Smith Center engagement Wednesday at Lavo (Palazzo) ...

"Jersey Shore" cast members Sammi “Sweetheart” Giancola, Deena Nicole Cortese and Ronnie Ortiz-Magro, partying Tuesday at Hyde (Bellagio) ...

Former Chicago Bear Gale Sayers, with his wife at Joe’s Stone Crab inside the Forum Shops at Caesars ...

Spotted at Marquee (Cosmopolitan) on Saturday: Hockey star Sean Avery and “Shameless” star Stephanie Fantauzzi …

Joey Fatone, formerly of *NSync and current host of "The Price is Right Live at Bally’s," visiting the Mob Museum on Sunday with his wife …

Basketball star Shaquille O’Neal, performing "I Love Rock 'n' Roll" onstage at Lavo (Palazzo) Saturday while partying in celebration of his 40th birthday. He was also spotted Friday at Tao (Venetian) …

Former GOP presidential candidate Herman Cain, playing poker Thursday at Encore ...

Jarrod Schulz and Brandi Passante of "Storage Wars," touring the Mob Museum on Friday ...

KISS member Gene Simmons, signing autographs at Rumor Boutique Hotel on Thursday in the Gossip Red Suite ...

Four-time WSOP bracelet winner Daniel Negreanu, at Cafe Martorano's at Rio All-Suite Hotel & Casino Thursday night with four Three Square donors who paid $1,000 each during the charity's 2011 Fight Holiday Hunger campaign. Daniel offered the package on air during the December Three Square/X107.5 Radiothon...

Actor Nicolas Cage, dining Tuesday at Lombardi's Romagna Mia (Miracle Mile Ships inside Planet Hollywood Resort) with his wife and son. Cage was also spotted Sunday evening at Joe’s Stone Crab (Forum Shops at Caesars) with his wife and son...

Danica Patrick and her husband, Paul Hospenthal, dining at Simon Restaurant & Lounge in the Palms Hotel on Friday …

Actor Benjamin Walker, taking in the scene Friday at Lavo (Palazzo) …

Actor/comedian Martin Lawrence, with his wife and children at the Jabbawockeez's late show Thursday at Monte Carlo ...

Accompanying U.K. businessman Philip Green at the grand opening of his Topshop and Topman store in Fashion Show mall on Thursday: actress/heiress Lydia Hearst, daughter of Patty Hearst, and actress Kristen Bell …

Taboo of the Black Eyed Peas, with friends Thursday at Tao …

Dale Earnhardt Jr., having lunch at Sushi Roku (Forum Shops at Caesars) on Thursday...

Evangelist Joel Osteen, wading through a huge crowd at the Gold and Silver Pawn store Thursday, home of the “Pawn Stars” reality show…

Matt Kenseth, this year’s Daytona 500 winner, shooting scenes at Fast Lap Racing with “Pawn Stars” personalities Rick Harrison and his son Corey "Big Hoss" Harrison....

NASCAR star Kevin Harvick, having lunch at Todd English P.U.B. (Crystals at CityCenter) on Thursday…

The Whiffenpoofs attended “KA” (MGM Grand) and dined at Switch (Wynn) on Wednesday. They were at the Academy of Performing Arts on Thursday to conduct a seminar and perform a concert…

New York publicist Sara Stosic, with the Wynns at the launch dinner. She’s is in town this week interviewing for the XS and Tryst marketing job. She was doing PR for a nightclub in Mykonos, Greece a couple years ago when she befriended Nick Hissom, whose mother Andrea Hissom married Wynn last April. Stosic has been helping Hissom, 19, establish his modeling and aspiring music career. He recently made his runway debut for Tommy Hilfiger during New York’s Fashion Week. He attended the launch party with Stosic…

At the Chippendales (Rio) on Wednesday: WWE legends "Hacksaw" Jim Duggan, Jimmy "Mouth of the South" Hart, "Rowdy" Roddy Piper, Hillbilly Jim, Pat Patterson, "Mean" Gene Okerlund, Howard Finkel, and Tony Atlas, filming an upcoming episode of the new reality series, "WWE Legends House." ...

At Share nightclub’s grand opening on Saturday: host Ross Mathews of E! Entertainment, a musical performance by UK star Luciana, Carson Kressley, Alec Mapa, Jai Rodriguez, Ronnie Kroell, Angel Porrino, Josh Strickland and Laura Croft from E!’s TV hit “Holly’s World,” Josh Flagg and Madison Hildebrand from Bravo’s “Million Dollar Listing,” NOH8’s Adam Bouska and Jeff Parshley, and Robby LaRiviere from “Tabatha’s Salon Takeover.” Las Vegas acts that attended and supported the night were Frank Marino and the Divas, Chippendale legend Jaymes Vaughn, the “Mistress of Sensuality” Edie of Zumanity, plus Melody Sweet, Maximum, and The Gazillionaire from ”Absinthe” and KLAS-TV reporter and TV personality Chris Saldana.

Mauricio Rua, the Brazilian UFC champ, dined at the Original Pancake House at Fort Apache and Flamingo Monday with his manager Julio Heller…

Jamie-Lynn Sigler of "The Sopranos," dining with friends at Scarpetta (Cosmopolitan) on Friday….

Former Detroit Lion Mel Farr, dining Monday at Joe’s Stone Crab with friends …

Racecar driver Tony Stewart, with friends at Marquee (Cosmopolitan) Monday night …

Sidney Rice of the Seattle Seahawks, visiting Marquee (Cosmopolitan) on Monday …

Political consultant James Carville, reading a newspaper and grabbing a drink Sunday afternoon at Spago inside the Caesars Forum Shops …

“Reno 911” actor Carlos Alazraqui, watching “Empire Comedy” (Paris) during David Koechner’s set late Saturday night …

Denver Broncos quarterback Tim Tebow, with friends at Gustav Mauler's Spiedini (JW Marriott) on Saturday....

R&B singer Omarion, visiting Marquee (Cosmopolitan) on Saturday …

Vienna Girardi, “The Bachelor” Season 14 winner, visiting Lavo (Palazzo) on Friday after heading to Tao (Venetian) on Thursday …

Country musician Randy Travis and members of the band Korn, visiting Gold & Silver Pawn on Friday …

Singer Enrique Iglesias, with friends Tuesday night at Lavo (Palazzo) …

At "Viva Elvis" Tuesday night: Actor Kelsey Grammer and wife Kayte Walsh, "My Fair Wedding" host David Tutera and singer/TV personality Joey Fatone with his parents ...

Destin Pfaff, COO of the Millionaire’s Club and co-star of “The Millionaire Matchmaker,” dining Tuesday with wife, Rachel Federoff, at Rice & Company inside Luxor …

Ryan Sheckler, professional skateboarder and former reality TV star, dining Monday at N9ne Steakhouse inside the Palms Hotel with friends …

New York Jets quarterback Mark Sanchez, dining Monday with a friend at Sugar Factory American Brasserie inside Paris ...

Professional skateboarder Ryan Sheckler, dining at N9NE Steakhouse inside the Palms Casino on Sunday evening ...

Hines Ward, Jr., Pittsburgh Steelers wide receiver, with friends at N9ne inside Palms Resort on Saturday. Also spotted: Mark Sanchez, quarterback for the New York Jets, with friends …

New York Jets star Mark Sanchez, visiting Marquee (Cosmopolitan) on Saturday …

Buddy Valastro from the show “Cake Boss”, dancing Saturday at Lavo (Palazzo) with his Carlos Bakery team …

Basketball stars Mo Williams and Trey Thompkins of the Los Angeles Clippers, visiting Marquee (Cosmopolitan) on Friday night …

Actor Nicolas Cage, attending Viva Elvis by Cirque du Soleil (Aria) with wife Alice and son Kal-El on Saturday ...

UFC fighter Forrest Griffin, dining at Greens & Proteins in Henderson on Friday ...

Singer and TV personality Marie Osmond, dining at Greens & Proteins in Henderson on Wednesday afternoon ...

Country singer Shania Twain, dining at Spago inside The Forum Shops at Caesars on Wednesday. Twain was also spotted attending a performance of KÀ by Cirque du Soleil (MGM) on Tuesday night with husband Frederic Thiebaud. …

Spotted at Wolfgang Puck Bar & Grill in MGM on Sunday: Singer and actor Lenny Kravitz, actor Larenz Tate, actor Terrence Howard, magician David Copperfield and music producer Quincy Jones …

Actor Chazz Palminteri, dining Sunday at Simon Restaurant & Lounge inside the Palms Resort …

Corey “Big Hoss” Harrison from “Pawn Stars,” dining Sunday evening at N9NE Steakhouse at Palms Resort …

Spotted at Wolfgang Puck Bar & Grill in MGM on Saturday: actor Tony Danza having lunch at the bar, singer Chris Isaak dining.

Music legend Stevie Wonder, with friends dining at Tao (Venetian) on Saturday …

Ben Lyons, entertainment journalist and film critic, with friends at Tao (Venetian) and Marquee (Cosmopolitan) Saturday …

Guns N' Roses guitarist Slash, visiting Sugar Factory at Paris on Saturday to pick up sweets for his children. Also spotted: Randy Fenoli of "Say Yes to the Dress" dining at Sugar Factory American Brasserie with friends; former *NSYNC member Joey Fatone visiting the retail store ...

Carson Palmer, Oakland Raiders quarterback, dining Saturday with friends at N9ne Steakhouse (Palms Resort) …

NBA star Rick Fox and girlfriend, actress Eliza Dushku, dining at Society Café in Encore on Friday and Saturday …

Neil Patrick Harris, dining Friday evening at Comme Ca in The Cosmopolitan with fiancé David Burtka and friends …

Former NBA player Karl Malone, dining with his family Friday at Wolfgang Puck Bar & Grill in MGM ...

Mark Ballas of "Dancing with the Stars," celebrating a childhood friend’s bachelor party Friday at Lavo (Palazzo) ...

Mötley Crüe guitarist Nikki Sixx, dining Friday night at Joe’s Stone Crab with a friend ...

“Dancing with the Stars” pro Mark Ballas, dining Thursday night at Tao (Venetian) …

Rapper Lil Jon, with friends Thursday at Tao (Venetian) …

DeAngelo Hall, Washington Redskins cornerback, Thursday at Tao (Venetian) …

Rapper Treach of Naughty By Nature, performing at Old School Wednesdays at Lavo (Palazzo). Also spotted was wide receiver DeSean Jackson of the Philadelphia Eagles ...

Actor and model Kellan Lutz, celebrating Valentine's Day with girlfriend Sharni Vinson at Sugar Factory American Brasserie inside Paris on Tuesday ...

Drummer Travis Barker, dining Monday evening at Nove Italiano inside the Palms Resort with his children …

New England Patriots wide receiver Wes Welker, dining at Society Café at Encore Sunday afternoon with his fiancé, Miss Hooters International 2005 Anna Burns ...

Jamie Gold, 2006 World Series of Poker champion, with friends Sunday at Joe’s Stone Crab ...

Actor Miles Teller, known for his stage and screen role as Willard in “Footloose,” dining at Tao (Venetian) Saturday with friends …

“Dancing with the Stars” contestant Niecy Nash, known for her work on "Reno 911," dancing and dining Saturday at Lavo (Palazzo)…

Chris Pontius, also known as “Party Boy” from “Jackass,” and Vinnie Paul, Hellyeah, Pantera and Damageplan drummer, listening to Mötley Crüe at The Joint inside Hard Rock Hotel on Saturday ...

NFL free agent William Demps Jr., with friends including retired cornerback Jason Bell on Saturday at Marquee …

Female Latin artist Jenni Rivera, dining Saturday at Sugar Factory American Brasserie at Paris while in town celebrating her son's birthday…

Rapper Flavor Flav, in the crowd at the UNLV-San Diego State men’s basketball game on Saturday at a rockin’ Thomas & Mack Arena. Members of the 1987 Final Four team were honored at halftime. Freddie Banks and Mark Wade were among the eight players on hand, as was coach Jerry Tarkanian. Five members of the late Armon Gilliam’s family also attended …

Pittsburgh Steelers All-Pro safety Troy Polamalu and Arizona Cardinals wide receiver Stephen Williams, backstage at the Jabbawockeez show (Monte Carlo) on Friday. Later, Polamalu and Baltimore Ravens running back Ray Rice of the Baltimore Ravens were spotted at Marquee (Cosmopolitan)…

Niecy Nash of “Reno 911” and a “Dancing With the Stars” contestant, with her husband, Jay Tucker, at “Zumanity” (New York-New York) on Friday. Nash was also spotted at Tao…

Lauren Conrad, celebrating her 26th birthday at Hyde Bellagio on Friday with a group that included “The Hills” co-star Frankie Delgado.

Kiss front man Paul Stanley, guitarist Tommy Thayer and drummer Eric Singer, watching “Mötley Crüe in Sin City” Friday at The Joint inside Hard Rock Hotel …

Steven Jackson, St. Louis Rams star running back, Friday night at Casa Fuente (Forum Shops at Caesars) ...

Musician Alice Cooper, dining Friday at Spago (Forum Shops at Caesars) with a friend ...

Longtime TV personality Dick Clark, dining at Spago (Forum Shops at Caesars) Thursday afternoon with friends ...

Chris Phillips, Zowie Bowie performer, with Five Finger Death Punch drummer Jeremy Spencer and bass player Chris Kael on Wednesday at “Mötley Crüe in Sin City” (Hard Rock Hotel) …
