THE rarely-seen Family Matters star Jaleel White has made an unrecognizable appearance in New York.

Jaleel, 46 - who became famous for playing the super-nerd Steve Urkel on the '90s sitcom - was spotted running errands around the Big Apple.

The former child actor flexed his arms and flaunted his muscles while walking the streets of SoHo.

He carried a backpack on him and covered his eyes with shades.

The Dancing With the Stars alum showed off his toned legs while wearing shorts.

Jaleel wore a tight crew-neck T-shirt with short sleeves to show off his muscular arms.

He seemed in good spirits while heading out to lunch in Manhattan.

The hit ABC comedy Family Matters followed the Winslows, a middle-class African-American family, as they dealt with their daily struggles living in Chicago.

Although Urkel was initially supposed to be a one-time character, Jaleel joined the cast halfway through the first season after the immense fan response.

Although Urkel became the breakout star, Jaeel dealt with behind-the-scenes drama with the cast, especially the adult members.

'NOT VERY WELL WELCOMED'

In May 2021, the TV star opened up to TVOne's Uncensored about the tense relationship with JoMarie Payton, 73, who played Harriette Baines–Winslow, and Reginald VelJohnson, 71, who played Carl Winslow.

He accused his castmates of breaking him into tears and claimed: "I didn't see how I was stepping on anybody's toes. I wasn't taking anybody's shine.

"It's very important that I say this: I was not very well welcomed to the cast at all, OK?

Jaeel closed: "And I don't need to rehash that with the adults over and over again. They know what it is."

'HE WAS SO MAD'

In May 2022, JoMarie responded to Jaeel's claims and shared her heated moments during filming.

During an interview with Entertainment Tonight, the actress recalled that he tried to physically tussle her during the filming of Original Gangsta Dawg in Season 9.

She claimed: ”There was one time he actually wanted to physically fight me.

"There was a scene where I said we can't do that, standards and practices will not let that pass, it's not gonna happen.

“He wanted to do it anyway... He was so mad, he started kicking and screaming and stuff.”

JoMarie went on: "He said something about: 'She must want to melee.'

“I said, 'What's a melee?' He said, 'a fight.'

“I turned around -- if he wanna fight, I would.”

Darius McCrary, who played Eddie Winslow, reportedly grabbed JoMarie and ended up taking her away from that situation.

If Darius had not done that, JoMarie promised she “was gonna whip [Jaleel’s] behind."