According to U.S. News & World Report, Duke University Hospital was ranked #1 in North Carolina, and #1 in the Raleigh-Durham region.

In fiscal year 2023, The Blue Ridge Institute for Medical Research ranked Duke University School of Medicine #4 in the nation in National Institutes of Health (NIH) funding for all grants and contracts, including R&D. In addition to the research rating, U.S. News & World, ranks eight specialty programs in the School of Medicine in the top 10: Anesthesiology (third), Internal Medicine (fourth), Obstetrics and Gynecology (fourth), Surgery (fourth), Radiology (fifth), Research (fifth), Psychiatry (eight, tied), and Pediatrics (tenth, tied).

U.S. News & World Report ranks the Duke University School of Nursing #4 nationally as Best Graduate Nursing School and the school's Doctor of Nursing Practice Program as #2 in the country and six of its nursing major programs as #1.

Duke is the largest employer in Durham County and the second-largest private employer in North Carolina.

Duke University Health System has approximately 26,278 full-time employees. The academic Duke University Medical Center has more than 11,000 full-time employees.

Duke University School of Medicine comprises more than 2,600 regular rank faculty physicians and researchers, and the Duke University School of Nursing comprises 84 regular rank faculty members.

The Duke Health Integrated Practice, one of the nation's first and largest academic multi-specialty group practices. Prior to July 1, 2023, it was known as the Private Diagnostic Clinic, and encompasses 110 primary care and specialty clinics in central and eastern North Carolina and includes more than 1,500 employees.

Duke Primary Care has 1,520 employees and about 412 physicians and advanced practice providers.

Duke HomeCare & Hospice has 398 employees.

The Duke Clinical Research Institute, the world's largest academic research organization, has more than 1,100 faculty and staff.

The Duke-NUS Medical School has more than 1,500 full-time and adjunct faculty in research and education.

The Duke Global Health Institute employs 166 regular rank and affiliate faculty members as well as 96 staff members.

Duke is one of the largest biomedical research enterprises in the country, with $1 billion in sponsored research expenditures annually.

Duke University also ranks among the top American medical schools in National Institutes of Health grant funding with more than $672 million in the 2023 fiscal year.

Duke is home to the nation’s largest and oldest academic clinical research organization – the Duke Clinical Research Institute (DCRI). Established in 1996, the DCRI has conducted clinical research studies around the world, generating more than 17,500 publications in peer-reviewed journals.

The Duke University School of Medicine includes the research efforts of basic and clinical faculty members in 24 departments and numerous centers, institutes and initiatives. Their research has resulted in some of the world's most significant medical and biological discoveries as well as innovative new treatments for a wide range of human diseases.

The Duke University School of Nursing received more than $5.3 million in annual funds from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in 2022, making it 9th among nursing schools engaged in NIH-funded research. The School also ranked #4 in the number of F31 grants awarded (Individual Predoctoral Fellowships).

Approximately four percent of Duke's medical students are enrolled in the Medical Scientist Training Program, which culminates in both a medical degree and a doctoral degree.

The Duke-NUS Medical School has received more than $772 million in research funding from local and international sources, and its faculty has published more than 11,000 peer-reviewed journal articles.

Duke faculty have 250 active externally funded research projects related to global health, totaling more than $91 million.