It was just five months ago that Sir Jim Ratcliffe’s energy and chemicals empire announced the planned closure of Grangemouth, Scotland’s largest oil refinery.

Some argued that the loss of the site, which is set to become an import-only terminal, reflected how far the country’s oil and gas sector had fallen under the Scottish National Party and its Green allies.

However, the industry’s changing fortunes did not end there as the SNP was last week forced to abandon its pledge to cut carbon emissions by 75pc by 2030.

The result of which was the end of the coalition with the Greens, and the subsequent downfall of Humza Yousaf as first minister.

All of this recent volatility has encapsulated the nationalists’ complicated relationship with oil and gas.

In an era before the 2014 referendum, the fossil fuel industry was seen as Alex Salmond’s SNP trump card, providing the financial firepower an independent nation needed if it were to split from the rest of Britain.

However, sinking oil prices and the long-term decline in domestic production have revealed the risks of relying so heavily on one industry for a nation’s future.

Black gold officially fell from favour in Scotland three years ago after the SNP struck a tie-up with the Greens.

Nicola Sturgeon, first minister at the time, hailed the partnership as a stepping stone towards stopping “the climate emergency”, accelerating Scotland’s transition to net zero by unveiling a 10-year transition fund for Aberdeen’s oil industry.

However, three years is a long time in politics and now the SNP Green alliance is over, Scotland’s ruling party may have to embrace its fossil fuel industry once again.

Around 90,000 jobs in Scotland are supported by the oil and gas sector, according to industry group Offshore Energy UK, contributing £25.2bn to the country’s economy in 2022 – roughly equivalent to one-eighth of its GDP.

Given these stark figures, it is unsurprising that vast swathes of Scotland are so reliant on the industry’s success.

A report from the Institute for Fiscal Studies last year found that Scotland’s poor wage growth since 2014 was fuelled in part “by a decline in employment and earnings in the oil, gas and related sectors” – concentrated in the Highlands, Islands and North East.

The sector’s significance is also reflected in Scotland’s public finances.

Tax receipts from Scotland’s North Sea industry plunged from almost £8bn in 2011/12 to effectively zero by 2015/16, recovering to around £1bn in the years before the pandemic.

However, soaring oil prices during the energy crisis changed all that as receipts spiked to more than £9bn in 2022/23.

Given that oil prices remain high, trading at around $90 a barrel, the fossil fuel’s economic importance could reignite hopes for Scottish independence.

Kate Forbes, cabinet secretary for finance and the economy until 2023 and a defeated candidate in last year’s race to replace Nicola Sturgeon, is one SNP politician who has sought to highlight the North Sea’s continued importance.

During her leadership campaign, Forbes said that efforts to close down the oil industry in the coming years threatened “to plunge the country into poverty, and that does not serve our people”.

She has since gone further by accusing Just Stop Oil of “wrecking people’s lives” and objecting to the presumption that all voters are against new developments.

Such views chime with that of many Scottish businesses, particularly as Sir Keir Starmer’s Labour Party aims to halt new North Sea production if it wins power at the next election.

Ryan Crighton, a director at the Aberdeen Chambers of Commerce, has sought to champion the oil and gas industry by calling for Scotland to abolish unfair taxes on producers, such as the Energy Profits Levy set by Westminster.

He says: “We need to see the Scottish government becoming vocal opponents of the windfall tax because it is disproportionately affecting Scotland.

“They should be vocal opponents of it, given it has already cost 1,000 jobs in Scotland and could cost far more should Labour’s proposals come to pass as they stand.”

He fears that a rush to close down the industry will leave Britain more reliant on foreign fuels, including imported gas from Qatar and the US, while destroying those businesses needed for the energy transition.

Crighton adds: “They need to be supporting the oil and gas sector as a means for powering the UK, and also as a means for delivering the energy transition – we need these companies and we need these workers.

“The acid test is going to be in the summer when the final draft of the energy strategy is being published. The first version contained the presumption against oil and gas – that needs to go.”

This could gain traction among voters, as polling figures show that a hardline stance against the industry is not especially popular – even despite the enthusiasm with which the SNP and Greens embraced net zero.

Asked by YouGov to list the top three most important issues facing the country last month, only 17pc of Scots named the environment, which is below the average across the other parts of the UK.

By contrast, 61pc said the economy – which is greater than the 54pc in England and 50pc in Northern Ireland.