Wilma 'Marie' Delaney, 77, Kooskia

Wilma "Marie" Delaney, 77, of Kooskia, Idaho, passed away in her home on July 12, 2024.

Trenary Funeral Home will be overseeing arrangements.

Edward Leon Glaze, 84, formerly of Orofino

On a hot, July day, Ed Glaze went on his last camping trip to the final campground.

Edward Leon Glaze was 84 years old and loved every minute of his life. He enjoyed camping, fishing and hunting. Ed had a mechanical mind and was a Mr. Fixit! He preferred an "I can fix it" attitude and was a perfectionist in his work. Ed loved his animals and was good to many dogs, horses, mules, and other pets. He leaves behind his final canine companion, Choctaw, who misses him greatly.

Ed and his Eureka Ridge neighbor, Faye, provided help and repairs to all their neighbors, were very helpful in the community, and spent winters plowing and grading roads and maintaining the grader.

Ed was born and grew up in California, and he had another life and experiences before moving to Idaho, working for the US Department of the Forest Service for many years, along with running a lodge and fishing guide business.

Once in Idaho, Ed worked for the State of Idaho at Dworshak State Park, retiring in 2004 to spend his retirement on Eureka Ridge, and later, Juliaetta with his wife, Marilyn. Ed loved to cut wood and still has quite a pile ready for "camping,"

Ed has a large family, with children, grand and great-grandchildren, as well as step-children and step-grandchildren in California. Ed is also survived by his sister and her family in California.

Ed never met a stranger; he loved to talk and tell stories of his adventures. His first words to anyone who came to visit were "wanna beer?" And he enjoyed his beer after a day of work especially if he could share one with friends. Ed was rarely idle, working in his shop, garage, or out in the woods, scouting, picking berries, or riding his side-by.

The last few years, Ed has struggled with his health, fighting a heart condition and deteriorating lungs. He loved to be in the garden and worried about his tomatoes up till the very last.

Ed and his wife, Marilyn (Preussler-Smathers) were married in 2004. Ed was divorced and Marilyn a widow. Marilyn says they were funny old people, but they had good times in their 20 years together with their friends on Eureka Ridge.

Ed was a kind, thoughtful and friendly, loving man and he has a good life, well-lived. He will be greatly missed by Marilyn, their combined families, and friends. Per Ed's wished, no funeral services or memorials will be held. He will be shared on the wind in his favorite places, his ranch in California, his hunting camp, and Alaska. That being said, if you have read this far and knew Ed Glaze, you would know, raise a cold beer or an iced Gin & Tonic, share a memory of a great guy, and smile!

Photo: Edward Leon Glaze

Tresa (Sutton) English, 71

Tresa (Sutton) English, 71, passed away July 5, 2024, in Spokane, WA.

Funeral arrangements are pending.

Gladys Jewell Brooks, 100, Orofino

Gladys Jewell Brooks passed away on July 3, 2024. She recently celebrated her 100th birthday with family and a few friends. She was born to Robert A. and Ruth Lucas Jewell in Kamiah, Idaho on Jan. 28, 1924.

She moved with her family to Orofino in 1936. Gladys graduated as Valedictorian of her class from Orofino High School in 1941. She was awarded a scholarship and attended Northwestern Business College in Spokane, Wash.

Gladys married Rudy Meeks in 1942 and they lived in Merced, Calif., for a time. Returning to Spokane, she was employed by Farmers Insurance Company in the claims department. Her husband Rudy died in 1945.

Gladys lived the rest of her life in Orofino. She and Roy J. Brooks were married in Missoula, Mont., in 1946. She worked in the office of the White Pine Lumber Company, for attorney Sam Swayne, and then for Swayne and McNichols. When Roy started his construction and concrete business, CV Concrete Products, she became his bookkeeper. They worked together until retiring in 1990.

She was often found working in her yard and flower gardens, reading, and traveling to various places across the country to attend reunions of the crew of the U.S.S. Independence on which Roy served in World War II. Spending time at their acreage on Upper Fords Creek was her favorite pastime, especially when family was involved. She loved to clear brush and serve family a homemade picnic of potato salad and sesame chicken wings.

Gladys was a very devoted Seattle Mariners baseball fan and took an interest in LCSC (Lewis-Clark State College) and U of I (University of Idaho) sports including Vandal Football games which she and Roy attended regularly.

When her children were small, Gladys was a Cub Scout den mother and a 4-H leader for nine years. She attended the United Methodist Church and was active in Orofino Methodist Women group, Hit and Miss Club, and also the Clearwater Memorial Public Library Book Club. Gladys also volunteered with Clearwater Hospice and the Retired Senior Volunteer Program. She was a long-time member of the Veteran's of Foreign Wars Auxiliary.

Gladys is survived by her daughter Kelly Reggear (Mike) of Orofino; daughters-in-law, Lou Brooks of Boise, Cheri Lopez of California, and Martine Sobrevilla, Orofino.

She is survived by her grandsons, Douglas Brooks (Rebecca) of Fallon, NV; Joe Brooks (Melissa) of Boise; Aaron Brooks (Kimberly Graham) of Star; and Mitch Reggear (Joy) of Orofino. She is also survived by her granddaughters, Jenifer Brooks of Orofino, Nicole Brooks of Cascade; Tami Pease (Justin) of Clarkston, WA; Amanda Sobrevilla of Orofino; and Kaitlyn Forest (Michael) of Orofino.

She is also blessed with great grandchildren, (Emalee, Kaleb, Colten Sobrevilla), (Elly, Carl, Roy Reggear), (Kristina Belo, Brandon Tillson), (Jake Brooks), (Isabel, Rhys Brooks), (Chelsie Williamson, Cameron Brooks), (Addilyn, Emmett Pease), and (Jaeger Brooks).

Great-great grandchildren, include Alan Cook, Orofino; Camryn, Mack, and Jude Brooks of Nampa, and Colby Williamson of Baker City, OR.

Gladys is preceded in death by her husband, Roy J. Brooks; her parents, Robert A. and Ruth Lucas Jewell; her two sisters, Helen Ingram and husband Don, and Roberta (Bobbie) Beck; her sons Forrest (Frosty) Brooks, Alan Brooks, and Charles D. Brooks (presumed deceased). Her grandson, Ryan Brooks; and great grandson, Rowan Michael Eugene Forest.

In lieu of flowers, please make donations to the VFW in Orofino. A celebration of life will be held at 2 p.m. on Saturday, Aug. 31, 2024 at Gladys' home at 1155 Michigan Ave., Orofino, ID.

Photo: Gladys Jewell Brooks

Justyn W. Hall, 42, Orofino

Justyn W. Hall, of Orofino, born May 10, 1982, died July 6, 2024 in Orofino.

A memorial service will be held at the Orofino Best Western Lodge at River's Edge, on Saturday July 20, at 11 a.m.

Pine Hills Funeral Chapel and Crematory is in charge of arrangements.

Joe John Hudson, 84, Orofino

February 25, 1940 -June 29, 2024

Joe was born the ninth child of 12 to Harry and Beatrice Hudson at Grangemont in Orofino, Idaho. The family later moved to Harmony Heights in Orofino where Joe attended school at the Banner school house in Orofino.

Joe left school in his junior year to start work at Johnson's Mill where he learned to operate the heavy machinery he would run throughout his working years.

Joe enjoyed jokes and pranks according to his brother Sam and engaged in them when the opportunity arose.

In 1960, Joe was injured at Johnson's Mill, his glove was caught in the live roller on the edgings picker. He lost most of his hand but they were able to save his thumb and little finger.

Later that year, after he healed, he married his school sweetheart Joyce Bloom. They had three daughters Tammi, Kimberly and Holly. They later divorced.

Joe worked for Konkolville Lumber Company for the rest of his working life until he retired.

Joe married Georgia Colleen Anderson Nov. 26, 1976. They were married for 43 years.

Colleen passed away March 14, 2019. They enjoyed raising a garden and canning the produce in their home that they loved in Peck, Idaho. They totally enjoyed fishing, camping and boating on Dworshak.

Joe spent the last five months of his life at the Grangeville Health and Rehab. He was preceded in death by his father Harry Hudson, mother Beatrice Hudson, an unnamed stillborn infant brother, Lewis, Charles, Lee (Ralph), Frank, Andy, Ed and Tom.

Joe is survived by his sisters Ella Bea (Sis) Stout, Laura (George) Chatham and brother Sam Hudson. Daughters Tammi (Rick) Bird, Kimberly (Russ) Haralson, Holly Lundgren, as well as five grandchildren and six great grandchildren.

There will be a graveside service July 20, 10 a.m., at the Weseman Cemetery with a get together at Dining on The Edge from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.

Photo: Joe John Hudson

Donna Breeding, 55, Kamiah

Donna Breeding, 55, of Kamiah, Idaho passed away in her home in Kamiah on July 4, 2024.

Trenary Funeral Home is overseeing arrangements.

Pamela Sue (Ashwood) Bullock, 67, Orofino

Pamela Sue (Ashwood) Bullock, Orofino, 67, went to walk with the Lord June 19, 2024 at St. Joseph's Hospital after a trying battle with various health issues.

Pam was born October 15, 1956 in Salt Lake City, Utah to Ivon and Polly Ashwood. Pam joined two older sisters, Cindy and Jackie.

The family of five moved about a bit following Ivon's work, finally landing in Orofino, where they made their home.

Pam was a 1974 graduate from Orofino High School and was looking forward to her 50th reunion this summer. Stories of her antics, personality and humor are still reveled and shared with warmth and smiles by those that knew her from high school.

In 1977 Pam met the love of her life, Kenneth Bullock Jr (Bo) in Pierce. The two were a love made forever. Pam and Bo were married in 1983 and welcomed a daughter, Amanda that same year. A second daughter, Ashly joined the clan in 1985. The family made their home in Pierce, surrounded by Bo's family, and close to Pam's parents who remained in Orofino.

Throughout the girls' school years, Pam could be found in the classrooms helping out, getting sunburned on outside field trips, and being the loudest mom for all of the kids in the stands; if you knew her, you knew any of the kids around were hers and she let everyone know when she was proud.

During the kid's high school years, Pam and Bo welcomed Travis Wisman into the family as an unofficial son, and loved him just the same.

Pam and Bo spent 30 years together, making friends and memories where ever they went. They loved hunting, fishing, getting firewood, playing aggravation and loving, their kids, nieces and nephews.

Pam lost Bo in 2007, just a week after their anniversary. She spent the next 17 years missing him and waiting for their reunion. During those years she was blessed with her grandbabies, Christopher Berry, McKenzie Sly, Mya, Giada and Grayson Talbott, she also got to meet two great-grandbabies, Julian and Oliver Sly. She absolutely loved the opportunity to teach each of the grandkids aggravation and teach them "the name of the game" by her ruthless method of playing and taking everyone off the board, and don't touch her dice!

Pam took great pride in her career as a Clearwater County Deputy, and later in life, a 911 Dispatcher. She loved being part of the law enforcement community.

She was a competitive bowler in high school and in the years following with her dad. She loved to play softball and watch baseball. She was very artistic and loved to paint and crochet.

She was proceeded in death by her parents; sister, Jackie; husband, Bo; and a nephew, Jason. She is survived by daughters, Amanda (Jeff) Talbott of Lewiston, Ashly Bullock of Lewiston; son, Travis (Katie) Wisman of Lewiston; sister, Cindy (Dave) Cress of Tucson, Arizona; her grandbabies, many nieces, nephews, and many cousins.

Pam asked that there not be a service, so there won't be, but if you want to make a donation in her name, please donate to Idaho Animal Rescue Network. She left us with some great advice: "never reveal your art before you're done", "never leave the house without earrings" and "wash your silverware and pans last".

Enjoy Heaven, and your reunion mom, until we are together again, I'll love you forever and I'll like you for always.

Photo: Pamela Sue (Ashwood) Bullock

Evelyn Cooper, 86, Orofino

Evelyn Cooper, 86, passed away peacefully with family on June 16, 2024, in Orofino.

She LOVED her golf and was a five-time Orofino Golf & Country Club ladies champion. She had 5 holes-in-one and nothing kept her from playing, not even when she had to wear oxygen.

When asked how she would like to be remembered, she said she hoped people would say that she "was a good old egg." She also remarked that "getting old wasn't for weenies."

She loved her family and friends and will be greatly missed. Evelyn was preceded in death by her husband of 68 years, Dufur; and son, Doug. She is survived by her daughter, Wendy (Tom) Ray; grandchildren, Melissa (Chris) Elkinton, Stacy (Chris) Fish, Preston (Bre) Cooper, and Branden Cooper; and six great-grandchildren.

We wish to thank everyone who helped comfort and support our mother through this difficult time. The staff at CVH, CHR and a special thank you to Dr. Sholar for her compassionate care and constant support for Mom and our family. We do not have words to express our appreciation.

No services are planned at this time.

Photo: Evelyn Cooper

Vern Leslie Bigsby, 87, OHS class of 1955

Vern Leslie Bigsby, 87, of Ocean View, Hawaii, passed away in Kealakekua on June 21, 2024. He was born on February 4, 1937, in Placerville, Idaho.

He was a journeyman lineman, a member of the IBEW Local 125 and the Kodiak Elks Club.

No services are planned. He loved woodworking, gardening, fishing and golfing.

He is survived by his wife, Louise Bigsby of Ocean View, Hawaii; son, Mike (Sherrie) Bigsby of Utah; daughters, Ross (Dennis) Coulter of Idaho, Jamie Bigsby of Idaho and Casey Fisher of Arizona; brother, Lynn Bigsby of Ocean View, Hawaii; numerous grandchildren, great grandchildren and two great great grandchildren. He is preceded in death by his son, Kelly Bigsby; and brothers, Fred Bigsby, Bill Bigsby and Bonnie Bigsby.

Here is a link to his obituary: https://www.dodomortuary.com/obituary/vern-bigsby

Photo: Vern Leslie Bigsby

Kenneth Purnell Jr., 69, Elk River

Kenneth E. Purnell Jr., 69, of Elk River, died Monday, June 24, 2024, at St. Joseph Regional Medical Center in Lewiston.

Short's Funeral Chapel of Moscow is in charge of arrangements.

Tom Stroschein, 86, Elk River

On Thursday, June 27, 2024, the Idaho Sheepherder departed to be with the Great Shepherd of green pastures and still waters. What a capacious legacy with volumes of stories he has left for us to treasure.

From true pioneer stock- Pauline Fyke, born in Wetonka, South Dakota, and Roy Stroschein, born in Bosler, Wyoming, came their first born, Tommy Sherrill Stroschein on July 26, 1937 in American Falls, Idaho. His mama told him it was the popcorn she ate the night before at the movies in Idaho Falls that prompted him to make his grand entrance into the world.

We laughed when we found the $37.50 hand-written hospital receipt tucked away in his baby book that paid for his delivery and a mandatory two-week stay in the hospital.

Tom was incredibly proud of his German Hohenzollern heritage, and even more proud of the things his father accomplished in his lifetime with only an eighth-grade education. Tom credits his mother who taught in the Sterling and Aberdeen Schools over 30 years for being the silent force behind his father's accomplishments: serving as a member of the Idaho Transportation Board, Aberdeen School Board, and the Idaho State Legislature.

Tommy grew up working side by side with his dad on the farm at Sterling, ten miles north of Aberdeen. He attended grade school at the Grandview School and high school in Aberdeen. If you have ever driven across the American Falls Dam and wondered how the black AHS sign on an orange background ended up on the 106-foot reinforced concrete grain elevator left standing in the reservoir after the reclamation project covered the old townsite, it was the Senior Class President, Tommy Stroschein, and the boys of the Aberdeen High School Class of 1955.

They borrowed Tom's dad's boat (actually, it is rumored Tom's dad was driving the boat), several gallons of black and orange paint, and a tall ladder.

After high school, Tom's dad told him he could go to any college he wanted, but his tuition money would be at the University of Idaho. From that day on, Tom wore the silver and gold colors with pride. He said, "Even my t-shirts were gold; but that's because of the Moscow water."

In the fall of his sophomore year at Idaho, Tom survived the fire at Gault Hall started by a UI law student, tragically killing three of his fellow classmates. The next fall he became a charter member of University of Idaho Farm House Fraternity, commissioned in October 1957 and was the recipient of the coveted FH Doane Award. He was Outstanding U of I Senior, a member of Silver Lance, Blue Key, Alpha Zeta and national president (Royal King) of Intercollegiate Knights. Tom graduated with a B.S. Degree in Animal Husbandry from the University of Idaho in 1959.

After college, Tom met Karen Smith, a sorority sister of Tom's younger sister, Sharon. Tom and Karen were married December 28, 1963. They made their life on the family farm where Tom worked since college; and where he recently acquired a band of sheep. He and his dad also expanded their irrigated farmland from three-hundred to a thousand acres, officially becoming Stroschein Ranches, Inc., raising hay, grain, sugar beets, peas, and potatoes.

In their 21-year marriage, Tom and Karen acquired an additional four thousand head of ewes, bringing the total to five thousand. They were blessed with two children; Sherrill and Steve, (also known as "Gus").

It was the financial devastation of the 80s that not only pushed family farms and ranches over the edge, but relationships as well. The sheep were liquidated along with the marriage in 1983-84, though Tom and Karen cooperated in parenting and were friends until her death in 2005. It was important to Tom that he later have Karen's blessing on his marriage to Ruby Campbell Miles in 1990 when Tom also took on the responsibility of raising three step-children; Matt, Katie, and Sarah.

Tom was appointed by Cecil Andrus to the Idaho Sheep Commission during Governor Andrus's first term, in 1972, and to the Idaho Wheat Commission during Andrus's second term in 1990. Tom was appointed to the Idaho State Farm Service Agency Board in 1993. He also served on various boards and committees of National Farmers Union, Eastern Idaho Grazing Association, and Society for Range Management. Tom worked with the US Forest Service to initiate the first rest-rotation grazing program in the Caribou National Forest.

In 1984, Tom was a candidate for Idaho State Representative, where he lost to Mike Simpson, claiming he helped launch the 40-year political career of the now District Two Idaho Congressman. He previously worked to get Richard Stallings elected to the position Congressman Simpson now holds, and went on to serve as Stallings's Agricultural Advisor for several years, working on the 1985 Farm Bill in Washington D.C.

After leasing the Aberdeen Farm to Val Wahlen in 1997, Tom and Ruby moved to Moscow, Idaho for Ruby to finish her degree in Ag Econ. It was in this anomaly of political diversity Tom was successfully elected as Latah County Commissioner for four terms, retiring in 2015. During his tenure as commissioner, Tom was appointed by Governor Otter as an Idaho Health and Welfare Board Member in 2009, retiring in 2020.

The awards and recognitions Tom has received through the years are extensive. Tom's finest accomplishment was starting the Idaho Recovery Centers. Because Tom spear-headed the project, the initial funding from the Idaho Millennial Fund included the start-up of the Latah Recovery Center, and three others. The program has now expanded to nine alcohol and drug recovery centers in Idaho and several satellite centers.

Tom was an active member of the Aberdeen St. Paul's Lutheran Church and Moscow Emmanual Lutheran Church where he served on the church council and University of Idaho Campus Christian Center board. He was also a member of the Moscow Rotary Club.

After Tom retired from the county commissioner job, he and Ruby sold their home in Moscow and moved to the home they built in Elk River several years earlier. Tom has most recently served as chairman on the Elk River Recreation District. Tom is survived by his only sibling, Sharon Stroschein Block of Colorado, formerly Twin Falls; his wife, Ruby; and children, Sherrill (Peter Tsoulos) of London, UK, Steven (Kika) of Woodbridge, VA, Matt Miles (Jenn Shipp) of Havre, MT, Katie Miles (Matt Baldwin) of Seattle, WA, and Sarah Miles (Kyle Stamper), of Kendrick, ID; grandchildren, Hannah Miles, Kylie Stamper, Katlyn Curnutt, Tommy Stamper, Matt and Alex Stroschein, and Noah Tsoulos, and four great-grandchildren.

A special thanks to Julia Parker, Gentiva Hospice, and the care takers of Cascadia of Lewiston. All of you showed Tom extraordinary respect, dignity, care and kindness and helped Tom's family through a difficult time.

A public viewing will be held at Short's Funeral Chapel at 1225 E. 6th Street on Monday, July 8, 2024 from 10 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. A private family graveside service will be held at the Moscow Cemetery following the viewing.

A public memorial service will be held on July 27, 2024 at the University of Idaho Administration Building Auditorium at 2 p.m. Due to Admin Building parking reconstruction, parking will be available in parking lots on the north and east side of the music building, (Lots 41 & 46), the lot east of the Campus Christian Center (Lot 36), Lot 42 between Niccolls and Ridenbaugh Hall as well as Lot 45 across from FarmHouse on Blake Ave.

The Vandal Trolly will be picking up at the large parking lot on Sweet Avenue (Lot 60) starting at 1:15 every 5 to 7 minutes and taking folks back after the service. Link to summer break parking map is here: https://www.uidaho.edu/-/media/uidaho-responsive/files/infrastructure/parking/maps/seasonal/summer_break_parking_map.pdf?la=en&rev=cbe0dd98d21e4b2a90fb635d206cd187

A recording of the July 27 memorial service will be available on Short's Funeral Chapel website at www.shortsfuneralchapel.com.

In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Latah Recovery Center at https://latahrecoverycenter.org/contact-and-support-us/

Now, listen closely. Can you hear him shout from somewhere out there? "Go Vandals!"

Arrangements have been entrusted to Short's Funeral Chapel of Moscow and condolences may be left at www.shortsfuneralchapel.com.

Photo: Tom Stroschein

Archie 'Ben' Williams, 77, Clearwater

Archie 'Ben' Williams, 77, of Clearwater, Idaho, passed away at Grangeville Health and Rehab on June 26, 2024.

Trenary Funeral Home is undertaking his arrangements.

Billy Mayer, a retired Air Force Veteran, 85, Kooskia

Billy Mayer, a retired Air Force Veteran, 85, of Kooskia, passed away at his own home in Kooskia, Idaho on June 23, 2024.

Trenary Funeral Home is helping with his arrangements.

Steven J. Stocks, 72, Kamiah

Steven J. Stocks, 72, of Kamiah, passed away in his own home in Kamiah, on June 20h, 2024.

Trenary Funeral Home will be assisting in his arrangements.

Pamela Bullock, 67, Lenore

Pamela S. Bullock, 67, of Lenore, died Wednesday, June 19, 2024 at St. Joseph Regional Medical Center, Lewiston.

Vassar-Rawls Funeral Home of Lewiston is in charge of arrangements.

Randall 'Randy' Jay Gould, 68, formerly of Orofino

With heavy hearts, we announce the passing of Randall 'Randy' Jay Gould on June 11, 2024. Born on March 12, 1956, Randy brought joy and laughter to everyone he met, he truly knew how to lighten up a room. He was a devoted father, a loving son, a cherished brother, and a dear friend to many. Known for his generous spirit and infectious sense of humor, Randy truly was the life of the party.

Randy's kindness knew no bounds, and he had a way of making everyone feel special and taken care of. Whether he was lending a helping hand or sharing a good joke, his presence was always a source of comfort and happiness.

So that Randy can be placed with his family, he was cremated. We will be celebrating his life in a manner that reflects his vibrant personality. Please join us for a Celebration of Life on Wednesday, July 3 at the Orofino VFW at 2 p.m. where we will remember the wonderful times we shared with Randy. In honor of his spirited nature, we ask that you come dressed not in black, but in a Hawaiian shirt - a tribute to his inability to wear anything else.

Randy's legacy of kindness, generosity, and joy will live on in the hearts of those who knew and loved him. He will be deeply missed but never forgotten.

Celebration of Life: Wednesday, July 3, 2 p.m. at the Orofino VFW.

Snacks and a no host bar will be available.

A private family burial service will be Wednesday as well at 1 p.m. at the Orofino Cemetery.

Rest in peace, Randy. Your stories, your laughter, and your love will continue to brighten our lives.

Photo: Randall 'Randy' Jay Gould

Michael L. Perman, 74

Michael L. Perman, 74, was born Sept. 10, 1949, to Cliff and Lavina Perman and passed peacefully at home Tuesday, June 4, 2024, of complications related to dementia.

Mike was drafted by the U.S. Army and served two years in Germany during the Vietnam War.

Mike worked for Idaho Health and Welfare, Family and Children's Services, serving for 30 years. Part of that time in Orofino. He graduated from South Dakota State University where he earned a bachelor's degree. His first job was working as a social worker for the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South Dakota, a job he thoroughly enjoyed and impressed him deeply. Later, he attended Boise State University to earn a master's degree and soon after became a chief of social work.

Mike was athletic and competitive and balanced it with golfing, reading and gardening. He created beautiful flower beds with his laissez-faire attitude of communing with nature.

He was a fearless skier; his first time wearing blue jeans, and some wonky hat, and long coat with his good friend Fred Deible years ago. He loved rafting and was the oarsman of his "Little Rubber Ducky." They had epic white-water trips together.

Mike was blessed with two children from his first marriage to Marie, Shawn and Rachel Perman. He was very proud of his children and four grandsons. He loved them with all of his heart.

Mike married Kim Bennett and they shared 27 years together along with stepchildren, Jennifer, Christopher, Johnathan Flerchinger and Padraic Reed, whom he loved like his own. They had a great deal of love and respect for him.

He is survived by his siblings: Rhonda (John) Kosiak, Brenda (Rick) Oxner, Penni (Allan) Deutch and many nephews and nieces and his beloved French Bulldog, "Thuner the Wunner dog."

Cremation has taken place; he requested no services.

His family would like to thank the very exceptional staff at St. Joseph Regional Medical Center and the pure kindness of St. Joseph Hospice care team.

Condolence cards can be mailed to P.O. Box 344, Lewiston, ID 83501.

Photo: Michael L. Perman

Lorena J. Marsh-Talbot, 45

Lorena J. Marsh-Talbot, 45, passed away unexpectedly on Tuesday, June 18, 2024, at her home in Moses Lake, Wash.

Services are this Sunday, June 23, at 10 am at Trenary Funeral Home; a graveside service will follow after, at Pine Grove Cemetery.

Margaret Diane Kinyon, 81, Lenore

Margaret Diane Kinyon, 81, of Lenore, Idaho, passed away June 11, 2024, in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, surrounded by love and light from family and friends.

Born June 26, 1942, in Genesee, Idaho, to Dereal Martin "Markie" and Margaret Amelia (Alm) Springer, Diane was the youngest of eight children. As the baby of the family, she enjoyed a special bond with her mother. She often referred to her childhood as magical because of her mother's love.

She always enjoyed her mom's chicken and noodles, salad with peas, and extraordinary chocolate cake.

Diane remembered going to church every Sunday and watching her mother put a dollar in the collection plate so she would have a good week.

After church, the family would always gather for dinner, which left an impression on Diane her entire life. She loved gathering family and friends together for holidays or just because. She became well known throughout several counties in Idaho for her delicious chicken and noodles, decadent chocolate cake, and perfect pie, obviously carrying on her mother's mantra that food is love.

Diane grew up and attended school in Genesee, Idaho.

Diane's house was the place for all the school kids to hang out. According to Diane, her mother's patience knew no bounds.

Diane often shared fond memories of when she was a very young girl, sitting at the bottom of the staircase listening to her brother Dick and his friends tell stories and laugh. Diane hosted dozens of slumber parties throughout her school years. As high schoolers, Diane, her best friend Mardell (Grieser-Broemeling), and a host of other slumber party buddies would sneak out in their babydoll pajamas to see what harmless mischief they could find in Genesee. Sometimes, they'd go to the school to swing; sometimes, they'd find other school-aged kids sleeping outside during the warmer months and go visit them. Sometimes, the girls would climb out the big second-story window and sleep on the roof above the kitchen. That's when Diane learned from her friend Sandy Berger to not wear slick pajamas on a pitched roof.

While in high school, Diane met the love of her life, Roger P. Kinyon, who was a year younger.

One particular summer, he'd been working construction in Montana with his dad, and when he returned to school in Genesee in the fall, he noticed a pretty, fair-haired, blue-eyed Junior at the first dance of the year. He didn't take her to the dance, but they went out after and from that point forward, Roger and Diane were together.

Diane graduated in 1960 and went on to work as a paraprofessional in Moscow.

She and Roger married on June 13, 1964, in Genesee, where they made their home until 1990.

Roger and Diane enjoyed raising their three "favorite" children (there was always a heated debate over who was the favorite), Wendy, Roger Todd, and Chad, in the little white house on Pine Street.

With a lot of elbow grease and love, several remodels to the home allowed for more space. Much like in her childhood, Diane made a fun place for her kids and their friends to hang out. Diane ran a daycare out of their home until her youngest, Chad, started school. She then started as a plant bookkeeper for the McGregor Company in 1976.

The Kinyon family, along with five other families, pooled their resources to install a swimming pool in a vacant lot next to the Kinyon home. Warm weather months lounging at the oasis created countless memories for many generations.

Other Kinyon family adventures included boating, fishing, and camping excursions during the summer months.

In 1990, Roger and Diane moved when their jobs with McGregor Company took them to Pullman, Wash. Diane retired in 2008 after 32 years of service for McGregor Company (1976-2008). During her tenure there, she worked at the Genesee and Pullman plants and the Colfax main office.

Diane and Roger built the home of their dreams on Dworshak Reservoir above Orofino, Idaho, in 2008, and after retirement, left Pullman to be full-time mountain people at Freeman Creek. Their favorite pastimes included boating with family and friends, watching (and feeding) the deer, an occasional round of golf, and visiting the neighbors in the side-by-side. Diane loved having morning coffee on the deck, weather permitting, and always enjoyed gathering her large family together for work and play days.

NCAA basketball season took top priority with her beloved men's Gonzaga Bulldogs, and she spent many a moment petting, loving, and visiting with her precious adopted cats, Holly and Emily. They loved her cooking as much as the humans.

Diane's ability to craft a pie capable of curling your toes it was so delicious made her a friend to many because everyone knows pie fixes everything.

She emulated her mom by sharing magical experiences with her 6 grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren. Drawing pictures out of letters of the alphabet, undertaking a crafty project in her sewing room, spending time out in nature, and playing lively games like Tile Rummy and Sequence were just a few of the memory-making adventures Gigi Di shared with her grands.

Roger and Diane also spent many hours over the years in Genesee, Pullman, and Freeman Creek with dear friends. There was always time for a wild game of pinochle with lifelong pals Fred and Marla Morscheck and Gordon and Brenda Cockrum.

After moving to the lake, Roger and Diane's circle of close friends increased exponentially, enjoying food, laughter, boating, fishing, and travel with Doyle and Linda Jones and Will and CeCe Sellman.

Beyond her family and friends, Diane spent countless hours with her second love, quilting. The Freeman Creek home included an oversized sewing room, and she spent as much time as possible pouring love and fabric into beautiful masterpieces for family and friends. She was honored to be Genesee's Community Days featured quilter in 2013, which was when the family realized her massive amounts of quilts both at her home and in so many other homes could fill several vehicles.

Diane also spent many hours laughing, learning, and sewing with her Material Girls family in Orofino. She cherished her "girl" time at the shop with Sharon, Denitta, Denise, Margo, and the "fabric gang."

Diane is survived by her husband, Roger P. Kinyon, Lenore, ID; daughter, Wendy K. Vineyard (Bill), Hayden, ID; son, Roger T. Kinyon (Noell), Genesee, ID; son, Chad W. Kinyon (Temple), Las Vegas, NV; sisters, Janice Y. Boehme, Page, AZ and Carol L. Walker, Albany, OR; grandchildren, Karrie (Wes) Schilling, Kalee Kinyon, Lindsey (Jack) Kemp, Tyrell Kinyon, Kelsey (John) Chhuor, Cody (Shanae) Kinyon; and great-grandchildren, Madison, Jack Jack, James, Grayson, Piper, Jakobi, Winston, Olivia, Carson, Savannah, and Sadie.

The family would like to thank the incredibly talented and compassionate staff at Orofino Hospital, Kootenai Medical, Hospice of North Idaho (Schneidmiller House), and Yates Funeral Homes and Cremation. She was also very impressed by the caring (and handsome!) Life Flight Network paramedics. Your attention to detail and giving Diane the comfort and dignity, she deserved during her last days did not go unnoticed by her family and friends. Their appreciation goes beyond words.

The family would also like to thank Diane's friends and extended family for the outpouring of support, prayers, notes, calls, food, flowers, and love during this difficult time.

A Celebration of Life for Diane will take place the morning of Aug. 3, 2024, at the Southwick Bible Church, 40192 Southwick Road. If you'd like to make a donation in Diane's name to remember her, please consider the Lewis Clark Animal Shelter (where Emily and Holly lived before finding their fur-ever home with Mama Di and Papa Rog).

Photo: Margaret Diane Kinyon

Gary Allen Medley, 76, formerly of Orofino

Gary Allen Medley, aged 76, passed away on Wednesday, June 5, 2024, at his home in Lewiston, Idaho.

Born on December 18, 1947, in Ontario, Oregon, Gary was the youngest of three brothers, preceded by Don and Dick, born to Ike and Dollie Medley. Raised in the scenic landscapes of Pollock, Idaho, Gary's youthful adventures often led him into the mountains around Riggins alongside his loyal companion, Shorty.

A natural athlete, Gary excelled in sports throughout his school years at Salmon River High School. As the quarterback of the football team, point guard of the basketball team, and a skilled pole vaulter on the track team, his competitive spirit and determination were unmatched.

Following high school, Gary pursued further education at Treasure Valley Community College, where he not only showcased his athletic prowess in football but also studied criminal justice. His career path later led him to the Idaho State Penitentiary and Idaho State Police before embarking on his lifelong journey in logging as a contractor with Potlatch Corporation. From the Benton Creek Log Dump to the Merry's Bay and Ahsahka Log Yards, Gary's dedication to his craft was unwavering.

In 1975, Gary married Sandy Bonnalie. Together, they raised a loving family of three children, Nikki, Hope, and Corey, in Orofino where their home became a hub of warmth and hospitality, hosting countless gatherings for friends and family. Nikki, Hope, and Corey were sources of immense joy and pride in Gary's life.

Gary's passion for the outdoors extended to racing motorcycles, bird hunting with his beloved English setters, and honing his skills in trapshooting, a pursuit that saw him earn numerous championships, including the coveted State Doubles Championship.

In the mid-90s, Gary's entrepreneurial spirit led him into road building and land development, alongside his son, Corey. Together they transformed their land holdings into successful neighborhoods, forming an unbreakable bond as partners in both business and life.

A man of many interests, Gary shared a special bond with his brother Dick, transitioning from trapshooting to golfing as their shared passion. In the competitive spirit, they enjoyed golfing with many friends along the way. He also shared a connection with his daughter, Hope, on the golf course, participating in tournaments in Orofino and Lewiston.

In 1994, Gary found love with Jeanne Kalinoski, whom he married on Dec. 24, 1999, in a ceremony at the Lewiston Country Club. Embracing Jeanne's sons, Daniel and Travis, as his own, they embarked on countless adventures, traveling the world, enjoying golf, and cherishing life's simple pleasures. They were able to live life to its fullest over the years. Jeanne's unwavering care and love brought comfort to Gary in his later years, and this December would have marked the 25th year of their marriage.

Gary is preceded in death by his parents, Isom (Ike) and Dollie Medley, and his brothers Don and Dick.

He is survived by his devoted wife, Jeanne Medley; his children Corey (Leslie) Medley, Hope Coleman, and Nikki (Jason) Anderson, along with Daniel (Lauren) Port and Travis (Karly) Port, and his ten grandchildren.

A celebration of Gary's life will be held on Sunday, July 21st at 3 p.m. at the Orofino Golf and Country Club. Let us gather to raise a glass in honor of Gary, sharing cherished memories and tales of the remarkable journey he undertook in this life.

The family would like to sincerely thank Bubba and Kiely of Elite Hospice for their exceptional support and care.

Photo: Gary Allen Medley

Deborah Grant, 80, Kamiah

Deborah Grant, 80, of Kamiah, passed away at Life Care Center of Lewiston in Lewiston on June 16, 2024.

Trenary Funeral Home will be overseeing arrangements.

Alvin Ledeboer, 86, Kamiah

Alvin Ledeboer, 86, of Kamiah, passed away at his home in Kamiah on June 14, 2024.

A Celebration of Life will be held at a later date. Trenary Funeral Home will be overseeing arrangements.

Leona Breen, 89

Leona Breen, 89, Kooskia, passed away at her home in Kooskia, on June 15, 2024.

Trenary Funeral Home will be having a Celebration of Life on June 22, 2024 at Trenary's Chapel from 11 a.m. to noon. The graveside service will be held at Pine Grove Cemetery at noon.

Barbara Janetta Pearson, 84, formerly of Orofino

Barbara Janetta Pearson, 84, passed away Monday, June 3, 2024, at Life Care Center of Lewiston. Barbara was born Sept. 8, 1939, at the family home in Clearwater to Bert and Vivian Thompson. She attended school in Clearwater and Kooskia, graduating from Clearwater Valley High School in 1957.

After graduation, she moved to Grangeville where she worked for Carmen Spencer and the First Security Bank. She met Burton Pearson and they were married July 8, 1962. Daughters Cindy and Teresa were born while they were living in Grangeville. Burton's job moved them to St. Maries where Jeff was born. They then moved to Orofino where Barbara ran a daycare. They moved back to Grangeville where she continued with a day care business but then went to work for Idaho County Nursing home until her retirement. Barb and Burton traveled to Alaska, Mexico, Pennsylvania and to the Oregon Coast along with many camping trips with family.

Burt and Barbara spent a lot of time at the ranch in Clearwater. They raised cows and chickens. Barbara always had a garden and flowers. Barb made the most of her garden by preserving what she grew. She loved her chicken; that is what she missed most whet they no longer lived at the ranch.

Barbara had a strong faith and was active in the Baptist churches wherever she lived.

Barbara is survived by her husband of almost 62 years, Burton; her children, Cindy (Ted) Nuxoll, of Lewiston, Teresa (Chris) Mitchell, of Palouse, and Jeff (Shawna) Pearson, of Lewiston; her brother, Kenneth Thompson, of Elk City; sisters, Janice Warren, of Lewiston, and Joann Henry, of Stites; grandchildren, Samantha and Mandy Nuxoll both, of Lewiston, Wyatt Mitchell, of Spokane, Elizabeth and Gabriel Pearson, of California; great-grandchildren, Colton Price and Theo Nuxoll, of Lewiston; as well as many nieces and nephews.

Barb was preceded in death by her parents; sisters, Jean Wilson, Lucille Frank and Evelyn Weaver; and brothers, Rodney, Larry and Jerry.

A private celebration of life is planned for a later date. Merchant Memorial Group is in charge of arrangements.

Photo: Barbara Janetta Pearson

Steven James Gilliland, 76, formerly of Orofino

Steven James Gilliland, 76, passed away peacefully Friday, June 7, 2024, at Royal Plaza of Olympus in Lewiston.

Born in Seattle on March 11, 1948, he lived much of his childhood in Coulee City, Wash., near his extended family. Steve was a great teller of tales and embellisher of stories. Many of his favorite memories were of his younger days in Coulee, causing mischief with his cousins or of the family gatherings which were held in Coulee and continued annually over the following decades. He graduated from high school in Ashland, Ore., in 1966 before taking various college courses and eventually enlisting in the U.S. Army from 1970 to 1972. Afterward, he worked in the television industry in Redding, Calif., and Portland, Ore., before following in his father's footsteps to begin his career as a hydroelectric power plant operator. Steve began working for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in 1978 at McNary and Ice Harbor Dams before making his final move to Dworshak Dam at Orofino in 1988 where he worked until he retired with over 35 years of service.

Steve had three children who he included in his many passions such as gardening, hunting, camping, boating and fishing. He was happiest when doing one of these activities with close friends and family, especially his grandkids. Music was another of his passions. He was a trombone player for the Lewiston Community Band for 30 years and he volunteered at local high schools helping young musicians to learn. Steve had a great talent for music that he used to glorify the Lord by leading music at church or playing various instruments at the churches he visited and attended.

Steve is preceded in death by his parents, Jerome Gilliland and Gladyce Anderson; and his brother, Graham Gilliland. He is survived by sisters, Jane Thomas (Erv) and Susan Taki (Gary); sister-in-law, Gail Gilliland; sons, Jon Gilliland (Erica) and Daniel Gilliland (Charissa); daughter Judi Storey (Steven); grandchildren, Jayden Sonnen, Corbin and Keira Gilliland, Kyler, Tanner and Brielle Gilliland, Austin and Bailey Storey; and beloved cats Raven and Martha.

In lieu of flowers, the family asks for donations to the Lewiston Community Band, P.O. Box 1481 Lewiston, ID 83501, or CrossPoint Alliance Church, where he was a member.

A celebration of life will be held at 11 a.m. July 13, at CrossPoint Alliance Church, 1330 Powers Ave., Lewiston, followed by a potluck style lunch afterwards. Please bring your favorite dish and fellowship with Steve's family and friends. Tell us your favorite Steve stories as we break bread together.

Merchant Memorial Group is caring for arrangements.

Photo: Steven James Gilliland

Lynda Litchfield, 75

Lynda Litchfield, 75, of Kamiah, ID passed away at Grangeville Health and Rehabilitation of Cascadia on June 1, 2024.

Trenary Funeral Home will be handling arrangements.

Valerie 'Val' A. O'Rourke, 59

Valerie 'Val' A. O'Rourke, 59, of Kamiah, passed away in her home in Kamiah.

Trenary Funeral Home is undertaking her arrangements.

Dawn Marie Roby, 61, formerly of Weippe

Our mother, Dawn Marie Roby, passed away Sunday, June 2, 2024, at her Clarkston, Wash., home. She was 61.

Dawn was born on Jan. 26, 1963, to Glen and Mary Ann Erickson, in Portland. She received her GED at Timberline High School in Weippe.

Dawn is survived by her sons: Tom Tolman, of Lacey, Wash., and Maxwell Kohler, Lewiston; daughters: Misty Tolman, Orofino and Holly Bailey, Lewiston; brother, Cecil Erickson, Orofino; sister, Terri Lashley, Orofino; nine grandchildren: Tyler Tolman (Boise), Alyssa Tolman (Lacey); Dre Wynn and Dalton Wynn (Orofino), Karlie Bailey (Lewiston), Katelyn Harrelson (Asotin, Wash.); Allison Kohler, Tucker Kohler and Avery Kohler (all of Lewiston); and one great-granddaughter, Blakelyn Wynn (Orofino.

Dawn's mother and father, Glen and Mary Ann Erickson, preceded her in death.

A celebration of life is being planned with details to be announced at a later date.

Photo: Dawn Marie Roby

Barbara Ann Basner, 88, born in Orofino

Barbara Ann Basner, aged 88, passed away peacefully on June 4, 2024, in Hohenwald, Tenn., surrounded by her loving family. She was born on March 28, 1936, in Orofino, Idaho to the late Jack Taylor and Katherine Ashley Taylor.

Barbara was an example of strength and independence, spending many years as a single mother. Her dedication to her children was unparalleled. Her children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren were her joy in life. Barbara's adventurous soul led her to travel the world, experiencing cultures and creating memories that she cherished throughout her life. Her love for music and karaoke brought smiles to many.

Professionally, Barbara was a respected respiratory therapist, a career that showcased her caring nature and her desire to help others. Her academic journey into respiratory therapy, which started at Columbia State Community College, was marked by determination and perseverance.

Barbara's early years in Idaho were filled with the excitement of horses and the rodeo, a passion that reflected her adventurous spirit and love for the outdoors. After spending thirteen years in Detroit, she made Tennessee home. She found peace in reading, crocheting, gardening, ceramics, and spending time with those she held dear.

In addition to her parents, Jack and Katherine Taylor, she is preceded in death by her son-in-law, Doug Pyle, and her siblings, Bob Taylor, Dale Taylor, Danny Taylor, and Terry Gill.

She leaves behind to cherish her memory her daughter, Simone Pyle; sons, Michael Burns, Randy "Bino" Latimer; brother, Donnie Taylor; sisters, Joyce Beasley and Geraldine (Dan) Hicks; grandchildren, Steven (Jennie) Burns, Justin Atkins, and Chastity (Jonathan) Odle; great-grandchildren, McKenzey Rosson, Emma Rosson, Paisley Rosson, Bladden Burns, Ryder Atkins, RaeAnn Rosson, and Echo Burns; special niece and nephews, Diana, Bobby, and Jimmy; as well as many other nieces, nephews, friends, and extended family.

Visitation with Ms. Barbara's family was on Wednesday, June 5, 2024. at McDonald Funeral Home. Funeral services were. on Thursday, June 6, 2024, with Bill Webb officiating. Burial will followed in Lewis County Memorial Gardens.

McDonald Funeral Home is honored to be serving the Basner family.

Photo: Barbara Ann Basner

Bryan J. Osborne, 74, Kamiah

Bryan J. Osborne, 74, of Kamiah, Idaho, passed away at his home in Kamiah on June 8, 2024.

Trenary Funeral Home will be assisting in his arrangements.

Judy Irene Kuhn, 75, Kooskia

Judy Irene Kuhn, 75, of Kooskia, passed away on June 1, 2024 at St. Mary's Health in Cottonwood.

There will be a graveside service on June 9, 2024 at 2pm at Pine Grove Cemetery, with a meal to follow. Trenary Funeral Home is conducting her arrangements.

Gail S. Mathers, 83, bush pilot for Orofino Aviation

Thursday, May 16, 2024, marked the end of the adventurous life of Gail S. Mathers. We are sure that he is soaring the skies as he did much of his life as a pilot.

Gail was born Dec. 28, 1940, to Edward Everett and Florence Mathers. He grew up with his sister June in Pomona, Calif. He was married to Lynn Whitney in 1981. He and Lynn had many adventures together: running a floatplane company in Alaska, motorcycling in Mexico and throughout the West, scuba diving, flying in their private plane to many fun destinations, and traveling to visit their adult kids throughout the country and beyond.

Gail is survived by his wife, Lynn Whitney Mathers; five children: Lisa Stugelmayer (Jim), Greg Mathers (Mary Grace), Laina Brown (Jeff), Laurelyn Bergin (Wes) and stepdaughter, Alistaire Clary (Tyler); 12 grandchildren: Brock Stugelmayer, Hannah Stugelmayer, Aubrey Gerber, Morgan Mathers, Rachael Mathers, Jenna Brown, Logan Brown, Caden Brown, Brennan Bergin, Ashton Bergin, Carson Clary and Kellen Clary. His sister, June Vitelle, passed in April of this year. She was survived by her husband Vern Vitelle.

Gail loved spending time with his kids and provided many memorable activities while raising them. They still tell stories of the epic horse trail ride and camping trip they took together when young. He also loved the hunting trips with his long-time friends Mandy Miles and Darrel VonBargen.

Gail had four very special friends from high school in Pomona: Bob Owsley, Gordon Anderson, Lowell McGrane and Eric Hasenbeck. They had such a great bond that they stayed in touch and had get-togethers right to the end.

Gail graduated with a bachelor's degree in accounting from San Diego State University. He then went to work for Price Waterhouse as an accountant and auditor. From there he went to Potlatch Corporation to eventually become their Fiber and Lands Manager, based in Lewiston, and traveled much of the world. He developed and owned the truck dealership, North American Diesel in the 1980s. In the early 1990s he was hired by Columbia Resource Company in Vancouver, Wash., to help the waste management company develop a landfill and recycling facility.

He was an accomplished businessman, but when he got the opportunity, he completely changed his focus of work and became a bush pilot for Orofino Aviation and McCall Air. He later became the Vice President and COO of Taquan Air, a floatplane company in Ketchikan, Alaska. His last position before retirement was with M.A. DeAtley Corporation as their Corporate Pilot and Safety Coordinator.

He was especially proud that he had worked hard to obtain many professional pilot licenses: Airline Transport Pilot, Multi Engine Land Commercial Pilot, Single Engine Land and Sea Pilot, and Instrument Rating.

Gail also was committed to his community as evidenced by the leadership positions he held as a commissioner for the Lewiston-Nez Perce County Airport, Vice-Chair of the Clark County Solid Waste Advisory Commission, President and Director of North Idaho Children's Home Board, Director of Tri-State Memorial Hospital Board, member of the Lewis-Clark State College Industrial Vocational Advisory Committee, Director and Executive Board Member Lewis-Clark Boy Scout Council, Director of the Lewiston Boys and Girls Club Board and Director of United Way of Lewiston-Clarkston.

Gail will never be forgotten and will always be loved.

A memorial service for family will be held on Saturday, July 13. We welcome you to share memories of Gail on the Merchant Funeral Home website at: https://www.merchantmemorialgroup.com/

Photo: Gail S. Mathers

Patrick John Boyle, 87, Dworshak Dam construction worker

Patrick John Boyle died of congestive heart failure May 21, 2024, with his family by his side. He was 87.

Pat was born to Wilfred and Emily (Snydal) Boyle March 14, 1937, in New Rockford, N.D.

Pat attended grades 1-8 at Tiffany Township one room schoolhouse, where in the winter Pat would hook up the horses and sled and drive his siblings and neighbor kids to and from school each day. He completed grades 9-12 at St. James Catholic Academy in New Rockford, graduating in 1956.

On Nov. 11, 1959, Pat married his sweetheart, Melva Jean Jensen. They would have celebrated their 65th anniversary this year.

Following High School, Pat started working various construction jobs, which eventually brought him and his family to Clarkston. He worked on the Lower Granite Railroad Relocation, Dworshak Dam and for several construction companies before starting Boyle Backhoe Service in 1981, retiring in 2001.

Pat has been a member of Holy Family Parish in Clarkston since 1965. He was a member of the Knights of Columbus and past member of the Loyal Order of the Moose and The Eagles.

Pat is survived by his wife Melva; sons, Michael, Steve (Joan), Robert, Ted (Holly), Mark (Laura); and daughter, Kelli (Bob) Sheppard; grandchildren, Josh (Chelsy) and Jason (Katie) Sheppard, Jake (Ashley) and Clay (Sammi) Boyle, Blake (Chelsea) and Jared (Carli) Boyle, Patrick (Erin) Griffin Boyle, Jennifer (Jon) Kabat, Beverly (Chris) Franz; great-grandchildren, Berklie, Reece and Jensyn Sheppard, Pryce and Chance Sheppard, Bennett, Caden and Briggs Boyle, Carson and Tommi Jo Boyle, Taylor and Emma Kabat, Finnegan and Sullivan Griffin Boyle; brother, Leo (Twyla) Boyle; sister, Kay (Denny) Marcussen; and brother-in-law, Robert Condon; and many beloved nieces and nephews.

Pat is preceded in death by his parents, Wilfred & Emily; twin daughters; and sister, Delores Condon.

A special thank you to nurse Avon.

A Rosary will be recited at 5 p.m., Thursday, May 30. Funeral Mass will be celebrated at 11 a.m., May 31. Both services will be held at Holy Family Catholic Parish, 1109 Chestnut St., Clarkston. There will be private family burial.

Photo: Patrick John Boyle

Larry Morriss, 64

Larry Morriss, 64, of Kooskia, passed away in his home in Kooskia, on May 27, 2024.

Trenary Funeral Home will be handling the arrangements.

Dorothy M. 'Dotty' Lillard, 93, Orofino

Dorothy M. 'Dotty' Lillard, 93, passed away peacefully in the early morning hours of May 4, 2024 at Clearwater Valley Hospital. Dorothy was born Aug. 18, 1930 in Hancock, MN to Ethel and Elmer Johnson. Dorothy attended High School in Eureka, MT. She was a drum majorette and lead baton twirler, graduating in 1948.

After graduation she started work with General Mills in Spokane, WA. She met and married CR "Chuck" Chehock and became a USAF wife at Fairchild AFB. They had two children, Lynda in 1950 and Scott in 1955. The three moved to Missoula, MT, while her husband attended the University of Montana in Forestry, and she became Office Manager at St. Patrick's Hospital.

In 1959 - 1966 she and her family lived at Noxon Ranger Station then to Trout Creek Ranger Station. Dorothy was the Assistant to the Principal for Noxon Montana School District.

After moving to Orofino, she found employment with Dravo Corp (Dworshak Dam) as secretary to the Project Manager.

In 1968 Dorothy married J. L. Whitey Wixson, who later passed away in 1979. During that time, Dorothy worked at the Orofino Medical Clinic as Office Manager and later became Clerk of Court for a District Court Judge in Orofino.

In 1982, Dorothy married A. C. Speedy Lillard. Together they owned and managed Lillard's RV Park at Dent, overlooking Dworshak Reservoir.

Dorothy enjoyed snowmobiling, 4-wheeling, boating, fishing and many fur babies throughout the years. She loved her family passionately and unconditionally.

Beautiful Dorothy is preceded in death by her parents, a brother Wesley Johnson, a sister Joyce Jacobsen, along with her late husband Whitey Wixson.

She is survived by her husband, Speedy; her daughter, Lynda (Russ) Pulliam of Kendrick, ID; son, Scott (Marcie) Chehock of Monument, CO; and grandchildren, Brandon Peterson of Buda, TX, and Angela (Dan) Lovato of Missoula, MT; great granddaughter, Freja (Troy) Hiniker of St. Ignatius, MT; and her great-great twin grandsons, Leif and Lukas Hiniker of St. Ignatius, MT.

Dorothy was beautiful, intelligent, energetic and enthusiastic about life. She adored her family, her animals and her friends. She will be missed by all that knew her.

A Celebration of Life will be held later in mid-summer at the place she loved. Date and time are pending for travelers. Notification will be announced at a later date by mail, phone and media.

A special appreciation and heartfelt thank you from our family for the compassionate professionalism of the Clearwater Valley Hospital Nursing staff who tirelessly cared for our dear mother and wife. You were above and beyond!

Memorial contributions can be made to the animal shelter of your choice in her name. Thank you.

Photos: Dorothy M. 'Dotty' Lillard

LaVern Dee Bailey, 90, formerly of Weippe

LaVern Dee Bailey walked through heaven's gate just prior to his 91st birthday. Born on Dec. 17, 1923 in Ephrata, WA, to Theodore R. Bailey and Anne Marie Steinbach-Bailey, he joined his two older brothers. Dad entered into rest Dec. 15, 2023 in the late evening hours of the day.

Vern, as most knew him, spent his childhood in Sanders, ID, where he attended school. He later moved to St. Maries, ID, with his parents and siblings. As a young man he was a taxi driver and drove truck for the St. Maries Lumber Co.

Dad joined the Army on April 7, 1953 where he served his country. Dad was grateful to have experienced military life and spoke of his adventures in later years. It was evident from his stories that he was proud to serve. Dad received the National Defense Service Medal and after two years of active service was transferred to the Army Reserves for eight years. Dad was honorably discharged on June 16th, 1961.

Dad fell in love with Ethel Carolyn Devoe and they married May 19, 1956. Together they welcomed and raised their four children, son Scott and daughters Carolyn, Dawn and Dana.

The family moved to Weippe in 1966 where dad worked in the logging industry. Dad was always known for his hard work and dedication to providing for his family. Dad owned and operated his own log truck for 19 years and during the summer months would load one of us kids up for some one on one time. When he wasn't hauling logs, he was working down "south" hauling grain where we'd get to ride along there too. Dad worked for several local logging companies but settling in with K.J. Weller Logging proved to be his favorite. Never really ready to retire, it finally caught up to him. He called it a day in early 2002 and retired to his property where he continued caring for his own place.

Dad loved his horses and owned several throughout his life. He enjoyed fishing, bird hunting, camping and boating, even though he was afraid of water. He was known to enjoy a little gambling too. In his retirement he learned everything he could about birds and became well versed in identifying local species. He faithfully fed hundreds of his feathered friends while he marveled at the handy work of God. Commenting always how their coloring couldn't be happenstance, they were painted by a loving Creator.

He is survived by his son, Scott Bailey of Colburn, ID; daughters, Dawn Powers of The Dallas, OR, and Dana Hoskins (Steve) of Troy, ID. He is survived by sisters, Donna Brown, Dorla Spicer; and brother, Steve Bailey, all of St. Maries. He is survived by grandchildren, Jami Powers, Andrew Therianos, Amanda Moore, Carly Hoskins-Geidl and Brooke Hoskins-Schlake, DMV. He is also survived by several great grandchildren.

Dad was preceded in death by his parents and brothers, Philip, Ross, Bruce and Jerry. He was also preceded in death by his daughter, Carolyn; and grandson, Andy Moore.

Dad and Mom ended up divorcing after 24 years of marriage but his heart was always with her. He never remarried and remained single the rest of his life.

A private family gathering is planned for this summer. In lieu of flowers Dad would ask that you hang a bird feeder in his honor.

Photos: LaVern Dee Bailey

Ramona Voegele, Grangeville

Ramona Voegele, of Grangeville, ID passed away at Grangeville Health and Rehabilitation of Cascadia on May 24, 2024.

Trenary Funeral Home will be handling arrangements.

Gregory Smith, 70, Syringa

Gregory "Greg" M. Smith, 70, a USMC Veteran, of Syringa, passed away at his home on May 10.

Trenary Funeral Home is assisting in his arrangements.

Gary Paul Baird, 62, Orofino

8/10/61 to 4/11/24

Son, Brother, Uncle, Friend (and cat collector).

Preceded in death by parents, Bill Baird and Bernice Shipwash; and one brother, William Joseph Baird.

Survived by sisters, Irma DeSmet, Cheryl Havel, and Linda Hall.

Also survived by 7 nieces and nephews and 14 greats.

Brother, in death as in life, it seems that we turned for a minute and you were gone.

Peace be with you, Brother.

Photos: Gary Paul Baird

Zelma May Woodworth, 91, Orofino High School graduate

Zelma May Woodworth, 91, of Clarkston, Wash., passed away Tuesday, May 7, 2024, at Clarkston Rehabilitation and Care Center of Cascadia. She was born Dec. 23, 1932, in Grangeville.

She graduated from Orofino High School in 1951. A year later, she married Albert Woodworth. They were married 50 years until his death in 2006. She was a member of the Clarkston Seventh-Day Adventist Church and attended Good News Fellowship, where she was known as the flower lady.

She is survived by one sister, Violet Godwin; her niece, Cena Godwin; and many more nephews, nieces, cousins and friends.

Preceding her in death are her parents, Otis Orvil King and Elda June (Hutchens) Flynn; her husband, Albert; brother, Howard; sisters, Mable Jean, Clarabell and Freda; and niece, Lori Godwin.

Rest in peace Aunt Zelma.

Photo: Zelma May Woodworth

Janie S. Peterson, 92

Janie S. Peterson passed away peacefully at St. Joseph Regional Medical Center in Lewiston on Monday, May 13, 2024, with her family at her side. She was 92 years old. Janie was born on Nov. 12, 1931, in Hanna, Wyo., to John and Adar Urbin. At age 6 she, along with her sister, was adopted by George and Alice Urbin of Greybull, Wyo.

Janie was married twice and had six children. She lived in many states as her second husband was in the military.

She loved her flower gardens and pretty clothes. For many years, she enjoyed competitive fishing with her family. Although she was tiny, she could hold her own. She was an accomplished painter and enjoyed many creative pursuits.

Janie's family was her great love. Many hours were spent playing games and cards with her children and grandchildren. Although she loved them dearly, she hated to lose to them. One of the great joys of her life was to be reunited with her three siblings, who she had lost touch with when she was adopted. She remained very close with them throughout the rest of her life.

Janie's strong Christian faith got her through many trials. Her membership in the Living Word Missionary Baptist Church was an enduring source of comfort to her.

She is survived by her children, Patty Reggear (Bob), Greg Koppang (Sandy), Diann Ward (Rob), Steve Koppang (Laurie), Yvonne Thomas (Greg); her siblings, John Urbin (Judy), Connie Roller, Helen Holcher, and numerous grandchildren and great-grandchildren.

She is preceded in death by her daughter, Michelle Armstrong; and sister, Dottie Bauman.

Her sweet smile and gentle ways will be missed by all who loved her.

Photo: Janie S. Peterson

Kay Joan (Chilton) Jacobs, 81, formerly of Orofino

Kay Joan (Chilton) Jacobs passed away on Friday, April 26, 2024, in Lewiston. Kay was born on Oct. 4, 1942, in Orofino, to Lee and Aretha Chilton. She had one sister, Carol, and brother, Richard.

Kay grew up in the small town of Orofino and graduated from Orofino High School in 1960. After graduation she attended Link's Business College in Boise. Upon completing business college, she returned to Orofino to work for the General Telephone Company and was eventually transferred to their location in Moscow. Kay worked for the telephone company until 1964.

Kay was married to Ed Robie in 1964. Shortly after their celebration, they moved from Moscow to Grangeville where they welcomed their son, Eric Robie.

In 1967, Kay went to work for the Grangeville School District as a teacher's aide. In 1988 she transferred to the Kooskia school district and worked there for 16 years.

Kay married Nick Jacobs in 1990, and they lived in Kamiah until they both retired. Kay and Nick then moved to Lewiston in 2004.

Kay kept busy with many hobbies, tending to her flower beds, traveling and visiting with friends. Kay spent countless hours making jewelry, cards, wreaths and scrapbooking. Spending time with her family is what brought Kay the most joy in life.

Kay is preceded in death by her parents, Lee and Aretha Chilton; husband, Nick; brother, Richard; sister, Carol (Chilton) May; daughter-in-law, Alane (Haener) Robie; stepdaughter, Debbie (Jacobs) Bear; stepson, Mike; and step-granddaughter, Ember Mendenhall.

Kay is survived by her son, Eric Robie;, brother-in-law, Larry May; stepchildren, Jim Jacobs, Bobbie Morriss, Terri Schleiper, Janet Jacobs and Franny Taylor and many grandkids, great-grandkids, nieces and nephews.

A rosary will be recited at 10:30 a.m. Friday, May 31, with a Mass celebrated at 11 a.m. at All Saints Catholic Church, 3330 14th St., Lewiston.

In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to your charity of choice.

Photo: Kay Joan (Chilton) Jacobs

Larry Donald Roby, 86, Orofino

OROFINO - Larry Donald Roby, 86, of Orofino, died Friday, May 10, 2024, at his home.

Mountain View Funeral Home of Lewiston is in charge of arrangements.

Dorothy Brown, 83, Weippe

Our mother, grandmother and friend Dorothy Arpan Brown journeyed from this life to eternity on April 13, 2024 in Spokane, WA with her daughters Roberta and Debbie by her side, along with her little dog Sammy laying as close to her as he could possibly get.

Dorothy was born Oct. 8, 1940 in Missoula, MT to Joe and Betty Arpan - the oldest of three daughters.

Dorothy was married four times and had five children. Her fourth marriage, to Dale Brown, took her to Weippe, Idaho in 1973, where she lived until February 2024, when she went to live with her daughter Roberta "Sis" in Spokane.

Dorothy received Jesus as her LORD and Savior and was baptized on Sept. 9, 2023 in front of family and friends. This gives great comfort to those of us who journeyed through life's ups and downs with her and witnessed the peace she obtained as a result. She is now free of blindness, cancer, pain and all of earth's troubles.

Much gratitude and thanks to the Hospice teams that loved our mom/grandma, especially those in Spokane who cared for her during the last two months of her life, and lovingly walked Sis and Deb through her final three days. We really could not have done it without them.

Dorothy was pre-deceased by her parents; husband, Dale; and sister, Audrey. She is survived by daughters, Debra (Joe), Roberta (Tj), Shala (Boyd); and sons, Larry (Juli) and Chris (Chaundra); as well as step-son, Doug (Lori).

She is also survived by 11 grandchildren and 22 great grandchildren (at last count); sister, Peg (Chuck); and special niece, Rikki.

Peace be with you Mother...we'll meet you on the other side.

Memorial services will be announced at a later date.

Photo: Dorothy Arpan Brown

Dorothy Lillard, 93, Orofino

Dorothy Lillard, 93, of Orofino, died Sunday, May 5, 2024, at Clearwater Valley Hospital in Orofino. Mountain View Funeral Home of Lewiston is in charge of arrangements.

Kenneth Wilbur Jones, 86, formerly of Pierce

Kenneth Wilbur Jones, formerly of Pierce, died Saturday, April 27, 2024, in Lewiston, after an extended illness. He was born April 16, 1938, in Mondovi, Wis., to Casey and Josie Talle Jones. Kenneth moved to Idaho with his family when he was a teenager.

Kenneth served in the Idaho National Guard from 1959-1967 where he obtained the rank of sergeant.

Kenneth attended college at Lewis-Clark State College as well as the University of Idaho in Moscow where he received a master's degree in education. He taught high school in Pierce for 37 years and retired in 1996.

Kenneth was Lutheran by faith and was a member of the Sons of Norway.

He enjoyed many outdoor activities such as skiing, fly fishing and hunting.

He is preceded in death by his parent; his brother, Robert; and sister, Ruth. He is survived by his niece Donna Jones Boymer.

Memorial donations may be made in his honor to St. Joseph Family Hospice.

A graveside service took place Friday, May 3, at Normal Hill Cemetery, Division C, Row 24, Lewiston.

Ann Marie Becker Nilsson, 85, Cavendish

Ann Marie Becker Nilsson died Friday, May 3, 2024. She was born May 11, 1938.

Ann was the third child and only daughter of Stanton and Leona (Wagner) Becker of Genesee. Her earliest memories included summers spent with her dad, changing irrigation pipes at the "River Ranch" on the Snake River and trailing cows on horseback through Lewiston to summer pasture in the Three Bear area near Deary.

She attended the St Mary's Catholic School in Genesee before transferring to the High School as a freshman. There she met Jon Nilsson, and they began a life-long romance that carried them through seven decades and life on two continents. She graduated valedictorian in 1956 and Magna Cum Laude from the University of Idaho in 1960. She received her Masters from the UI in 1962. She was a member of the Kappa Alpha Theta sorority and her many "sisters" remained dear friends, maintaining a rigorous letter-writing effort for decades.

Ann and Jon were married Sept. 24, 1960, in Genesee, and moved to Lewiston, where Jon worked for Twin City Foods. In 1962, they welcomed daughter, Caroline, followed by sons, Kirk (1964) and Jon Stanton (1965).

In 1970 they were selected as a family to serve in the "Peace Corps Volunteer" program. They packed up their house and took kids ages 6, 7 and 9 to Botswana from 1971-74 and returned under a Near East Foundation contract until February 1977. In retrospect, Genesee farm kids moving and thriving in Africa was unique.

They returned to Idaho and joined Stanton Becker Farms with her parents and brothers. This included property and a home in Cavendish (between Kendrick and Orofino), where they settled into farm life. They cheered on the kids in 4-H, music and sports programs at Orofino High School. Ann became active in the local chapter of Idaho Women for Agriculture and the Hill and Valley Garden Club in Kendrick. She was renowned as a talented florist, competing in regional fairs and events for many decades.

Ann and Jon remained world travelers and were among the first tourists to be admitted into China. They enjoyed a number of trips focused on farming tours, especially one that featured a million-acre farm in Brazil. In her later years, Ann's physical challenges didn't slow her down, and they made a trip to Australia and Alaska despite the extra effort.

Ann is survived by her husband of 64 years, Jon; her children, Caroline (David Troy), Kirk (Sue), Jon (Alisa); grandchildren Marie (Tom Linehan), Mollie (Ross Freeden) and Jacquline; and great-grandchildren, McKenzie and Jack. She was preceded in death by her parents Stanton and Leona Becker; and brothers, Donald and Dale Becker.

A graveside service will be held at 1 p.m., Tuesday, May 7, 2024, at the Normal Hill Cemetery in Lewiston, followed by a reception from 2 to 4 p.m. at the Lewis Clark Hotel at 111 Main Street and is open to all. In lieu of flowers, please consider a donation to a scholarship of your choice or a local 4-H club, or plant a flower or a tree that will bring you joy.

Photo: Ann Marie Becker Nilsson

Michael John Vinion, 73, born in Orofino

Michael John Vinion, 73, who passed away on Saturday, April 27, 2024, in Kalispell, Mont.

He was born January 13, 1951 in Orofino, Idaho. He is survived by his wife Eileen Vinion; son, Cory Vinion; grandson, Eric Vinion; and sister, Leslie Cook (Mike).

There will be a private family service that will be held for Michael. Arrangements are under the care of Schnackenberg Funeral Home of Libby. Online condolences and memories may be shared by visiting www.schnackenbergfh.com.

Harry Jenson VanDevender, 99, born near Weippe

Harry was 99 years old when he passed on Tuesday, March 26, 2024, at Parkside Family Home in Vancouver, Wash. His family would like to thank the Parkside staff for their excellent care and compassion.

Harry was born to Albert Meade and Buena Vista VanDevender on Nov. 20, 1924, near Weippe.

For Harry, every day was an opportunity to begin a new adventure, take a chance and experience life to the fullest.

In his younger years, he daydreamed about flying airplanes through the canyons near his home on the breaks of Lolo Creek near Fraser, Idaho.

After leaving home on traveling adventures, he obtained a job working in the Kaiser shipyards in Vancouver, Wash. There, he received his draft notice in early 1943.

Later, in Basic Training, he saw an offer on the bulletin board to enter Pilot training. Harry was accepted for the program and began to fulfill his boyhood dreams. He started Officer Candidate School in Albion, Mich., where he met the love of this life, Freda Anna Radtke. It seems that there was a shortage of transportation in Albion and at one of their social functions, Freda was twirling a set of car keys that caught Harry's eye. They continued their relationship throughout his flight training and were married Sept. 2, 1944, in Independence, Kan.

In early 1945, Harry was in B-24 Bomber flight training and was sent to Germany shortly after WWII. There, he was placed in charge of communications for three airbases near Munich, Germany.

In 1947, the newly created US Air Force was established, and he took the opportunity as a Captain to transfer from the Army Air Corps.

He later participated in the "Berlin Airlift", flying food and supplies to isolated Berlin.

When the Korean War broke out, he was sent to south Korea where he served until his honorable discharge in 1953. Upon returning to the United States, he and Freda purchased a summer resort in Buhl, Idaho, which they ran for four years together.

Harry was an entrepreneur and later took on several businesses, including stud logging, manufacturing cedar shakes, running a gas station and investing in common stock and mutual funds.

He is survived by his only son, Jim (Janet) VanDevender of Malaga, Wash.; four grandchildren, Tama (Bob) Naden of Orofino, April (Jeff) Patton, of Warren, Ore., Bryce (Rachel) VanDevender of Norman, Okla. and Robin (Erik) Olsen of Warren, Ore. Harry also has eight great grandchildren: Robert Naden III, Juliaetta, Samuel Naden, Lewiston, Wyatt Patton, Scappoose, Ore., Brooke VanDevender, New Castle, Okla., Ethan VanDevender, Norman, Okla., Marcus VanDevender, Norman, Chase Olsen, Centrailia, Wash. and Trever Olsen, Scappoose.

Harry was a man of many talents and interests. He enjoyed playing several instruments, playing the fiddle with an old-time fiddler's band, dancing, traveling, flying his plane and also lending a hand when someone needed their car fixed. He will always be remembered for his strength, courage, self-determination, and zest for life. He was truly a member of the Greatest Generation! We will always miss our Grandpa Harry, God Bless you!

To sign the online guestbook or to send condolence to the family visit www.tualatinvalleyfa.com.

Photo: Harry Jenson VanDevender

Sandra 'Sonnie' Brewer Campbell, 81, formerly of Peck

Sandra 'Sonnie' Brewer Campbell, our beloved aunt, sister-in-law and friend passed away in July of 2023 at Guardian Angel Homes in Liberty Lake, Wash. She was born May 14, 1942.

Sonnie was the second daughter, and baby of the family, born to Helen and Straw Brewer.

She is survived by her family; niece and nephew, Tammy Grytness Welch (Mark) and Jeff Grytness; brother-in-law, Dick Grytness; cousins, Sabra Colpitts (Cletus) and Steve Dietz (Lorie); and great aunt, Norma Wells.

She was a beloved "aunt" to Katie Welch, Peter Welch, Caleb Colpitts, Kazden Colpitts and Seth Colpitts.

She was predeceased by her parents; sister, Zona Grytness; and great aunt and uncles, Gail Dietz, Dayton Wells and Tom Wells.

Sonnie grew up in Peck, where her parents owned the Peck Store. She went to school in Peck and later attended Orofino High School, graduating in 1960.

After high school, Sonnie attended cosmetology school in Lewiston, and later worked in the restaurant industry in Lewiston and Spokane, Wash.

Her love of people and infectious personality made her a beloved member of the restaurant industry and broader community. Her customers were known to follow her to new restaurants and shift their dining plans to align with her schedule.

She was known for her kindness, thoughtfulness and caring personality. She made every stranger a friend. She took great joy in meeting her friends in Spokane for a weekly breakfast group, these friends were a light and support to her throughout her life and during her final years with Alzheimers.

Sonnie loved life and had many passions and enthusiasms. Travel was a favorite activity, especially if it involved family. She traveled with family all over the world including Scandinavia, Asia, Panama, Washington D.C., Alaska and many trips to see family in the Pacific Northwest.

She loved the beach, tolerated camping with her family, looked for any reason to throw a party, and enjoyed a good box of chocolate. Her birthday was always celebrated with spaghetti, meatballs and watermelon.

Her enduring legacy will always be the way she loved and was loved by her family. She was one of the most dependable people I know, her love language was "being there". Whether it was a graduation, wedding, a ballet recital for a five year, or watching hours of Little League Baseball games. She took tremendous joy in her role as "aunt". Our family could not have had a better supporter, protector, cheerleader or listener.

Her family would like to thank the caregivers at Guardian Angel Liberty Lake and her friends who continued to visit and reach out to Sonnie during her illness.

A celebration of life will be held June 22 in Orofino, Idaho at Riverside Cemetery.

In lieu of flowers please send donations to the Alzheimer's Association.

Photo: Sandra 'Sonnie' Brewer Campbell

Maebellann Steadman, 86, Weippe

With heavy hearts, we announce the passing of Maebellann Steadman, a longtime resident of Weippe, Idaho. Born in Montana on June 16, 1937 she peacefully departed in her sleep on April 24, 2024. She was the beloved wife of Ronald Steadman, with whom she shared a loving union in 1958. Together, they navigated life's joys and challenges, much like the meandering drives the two often took together throughout the beautiful Idaho landscape, creating cherished memories that will endure for generations.

Maebellann's life was intertwined with the tenderness and laughter of her family. As a sibling among 10 brothers and sisters, she held a special place in each of their hearts. Her home was always filled with the warmth of family and friends gathering, card playing, vanilla ice cream, taffy making, and laughter in her kitchen where friendship flowed abundantly.

She leaves behind a legacy of love and devotion in her two children, Donald and Roxann; her five grandchildren; many great and great-great grandchildren who were the light of her life. Each moment spent with them was a precious gift. Her fingers never turned purple no matter how many huckleberries she picked, somehow always picking more than anybody else, which she used to make her famous huckleberry cheesecake cherished by all.

Maebellann was one of Jehovah's Witnesses for many years and lived her life guided by Bible faith. She found strength and comfort in her beliefs.

In honoring her wishes, there will be no funeral or memorial services held. Instead, those who knew and loved Maebellann are encouraged to take solace in the memories they shared and the love that will forever remain in their hearts. We are eternally grateful for the outpouring of kindness and support from friends and family during this time of mourning.

Photo Maebellann Steadman

Brian Pomerinke, 54, formerly of Orofino

Brian Pomerinke passed away from natural causes Saturday, April 20, 2024, at his apartment in Lewiston. He was 54 years old. Brian was born Feb. 18, 1970, in Clarkston, Wash.

In 1973, he moved with his parents to McCall where he lived until 1976. They then moved to Pocatello living there until 1982 when they moved back to McCall. In 1984, the family moved to Orofino where Brian graduated from Orofino High School in 1988. He then attended the University of Idaho.

Brian worked for the Jaype Mill and, upon its closing, attended Lewis-Clark State College where he earned an associate degree in mechanical engineering and automated manufacturing. Using these skills, he worked for Thunderjet Boat Manufacturing for the last 29 years of his life.

Brian was an avid sportsman. He especially loved fishing, hunting, metal detecting and four-wheeling.

He never married.

Brian was preceded in death by Yager, his beloved dog and hiking companion.

He is survived by his parents, Ron and Rebecca Pomerinke, of Lewiston; his sister, Tara Cook and brother-in-law Brandon Cook, of Orofino; and three nephews, Jordan Anderson, Jacob Anderson and Jarrett Walker.

A celebration of life will be held at 11 a.m. Saturday, May 18, at the New Life Apostolic Church, 1010 21st Ave., Lewiston. A gathering with refreshments will follow.

Photo: Brian Pomerinke

Ashley Lahaie, 32, Lewiston

Ashley Lahaie, 32, of Lewiston, Idaho passed away on U.S. Highway 12 on April 25, 2024.

Trenary Funeral Home is overseeing the arrangements.

Douglas Wonders, 76, Kamiah

Douglas Wonders, 76, of Kamiah, Idaho passed away at St. Mary's Medical Clinic on April 22, 2024.

Trenary Funeral Home is overseeing the arrangements.

Ethel Hunter-Kaufmann, 98, Orofino

Ethel Josephine Hunter-Kaufmann departed peacefully from this life to the next on April 25, 2024. She would have been 99 this June.

Born June 23, 1925 to William and Mary Ann (Pranger) Waibel, Ethel was raised with her seven siblings (Clara, Ray, Bud, Larry, Joe, Frannie, and Bertie) on the family dairy in Midway, Oregon. As a girl she attended school at Midway Elementary and graduated from Hillsboro High School, in Hillsboro, Oregon. Ethel helped work the family farm while growing up, and worked picking strawberries for one of the neighboring farms in the summer.

During WWII, while three of the four brothers served overseas, Ethel and her sisters worked hard to keep the family dairy running. When she could find time, Ethel would attend local USO dances, and played catcher on the local girls' softball team.

Following the war, Ethel met Rhoda Hunter, and the two were married on Sept. 27, 1950. They made their home in Orofino, Idaho, and built their house on top of a hill looking over the Clearwater River. They welcomed their son Dan in 1956, and Keith followed in 1958.

Ethel worked as a homemaker until 1962, when she began working as a dispatcher for Clearwater County Sheriff's Office, following Rhoda's first heart attack. In 1972, she left the Sheriff's office and transferred to Magistrate Court as the chief deputy clerk. In 1979, she was elected to the office of Clearwater County Assessor, serving in that position for a term and two years, then contracting with the county as a district court support officer, retiring in 2005. However, her strong work ethic didn't make her transition to retirement easyEthel could often be found working and volunteering for St. Theresa's Catholic Church, or at home working in her garden, growing veggies and tending the best berry patches ever!

She was also an amazing cook, and always had homemade bread, cinnamon rolls, ice cream and cookies available for anyone that would stop in for a visit. Home cooked meals brought family members around the dining room table, not just at holidays, but any time they came for a visit.

Ethel was a very active member of St. Theresa's Catholic Church, in Orofino, for more than 60 years. Her dedication to the church was immense; you could always find her at Mass each week, cooking meals or hosting coffee hour in the Little Flower Room, working yard sales, and running the doughboy booth at Orofino Lumberjack Days each fall. Her faith in God and the waiting rewards of heaven was unfailing, and she never missed a day praying the rosary, always remembering to include her family and friends in her prayers.

Ethel valued family over everything. She had a remarkable relationship with her siblings throughout her lifetime, especially with her sisters, Frannie and Bertie, and her brother Joe, and always enjoyed returning to Hillsboro for visits with them and the rest of the family.

After 32 years of marriage, Rhoda passed away in May of 1983 from a heart attack. Ethel rekindled a friendship with Al Kaufmann, who had been a friend of the family back in Hillsboro. The two were married in September of 1984, and returned to Idaho to live on the hill in Orofino. They were married for 27 years, until Al's passing in 2011. Ethel continued to live at the family home at the top of "Hunter Hill" until 2019, when she needed more assistance getting around.

Ethel was preceded in death by her parents, all seven of her siblings, her husband Rhoda, and her second husband Al. She is survived by her sons, Dan (Kristi) Hunter of Orofino, Keith (Diane) Hunter of Mead, Wash.; granddaughter, Danyel (Jay) Ward; and great-grandson, Finn of Pinehurst; granddaughter, Kelly (Caylun) Peterson and great-granddaughter, Chloe of Spokane; along with numerous nieces, nephews, and dear friends. She will be missed greatly by her family and friends.

Services will be held on Saturday, May 11, at St. Theresa's Church in Orofino. Rosary will begin at 10:30, with mass at 11 a.m. and a light lunch to follow. Per her wishes, Ethel has been cremated, and interment will take place at a later date at St. Matthew's Church in Hillsboro.

In lieu of flowers, the family asks that donations be made to the Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America (www.ccfa.org) in her name.

Photo: Ethel Josephine Hunter-Kaufmann

David Charles Wright, 85, former OES principal

David Charles Wright was reunited with Dorothy Mae Wright on the morning of April 12, 2024. He was born March 4, 1939 to C. E. Jack and Nellie May (Flynn) Wright in Dayton, Wash. He grew up on the Battle Ridge family ranch and graduated from Stites High School (later to be merged into Clearwater Valley High School) in 1956.

After high school, Dave attended the College of Idaho in Caldwell for a year to pursue a degree in education and play football. A summer logging accident forced him to change course and he attended the Lewis Clark Normal School in Lewiston. As luck would have it, he met Dorothy and they were married on Aug. 30, 1958 until her death in 2012.

He completed his undergraduate degree at the College of Idaho and went on to obtain his Master's Degree from the University of Idaho. Dave's journey in education took him to Kamiah, Lake Quinault, Wash., Benton City, Wash., Moxee, Wash., and ended in Orofino, as the principal of Orofino Elementary School for nearly 22 years.

Dave enjoyed coaching and the camaraderie among the coaches and players where he made many lifelong friends. He coached football, basketball, and track and field at some of the various stops prior to becoming a principal. Even when principal at Orofino Elementary, he conducted basketball programs for elementary students and stepped in to coach freshman basketball when needed.

Upon his "retirement" to the family ranch on Battle Ridge near Kooskia where he raised cattle and trees, he couldn't stay away from coaching. He coached the Clearwater Valley girls softball team, a position he would admit he knew little about, but nonetheless put in the time and energy and led the girls to a successful season. He also obliged a request to help with the football program at Clearwater Valley High School in 1997 which unexpectedly led to the head coaching position, a mere 30 years between head football coaching jobs (1967-1997). Again, he put in the time and energy and got the most out of the kids. One could describe him as appreciating effort over ability.

Subsequently, Dave went on to help coach at Kamiah and Orofino for many years, the latter to follow his grandson. In 2016, he received the Duane D. Wolfe Memorial award from the Idaho High School Activities Association (IHSAA) for lifetime service and commitment. He essentially had a second career after "retirement" and treated it like a full-time job. Dave finally retired at age 77.

Dave was a caring dad and grandpa. As a dad, rarely missed a game, and there were many over the years. As a grandpa, he loved hearing of the grandkids' activities and accomplishments and attended as many as he could. Like Dorothy, Dave enjoyed the wildlife on Battle Ridge. One of his daily rituals was a afternoon drive looking for deer and elk.

Dave is survived by two sons, Jeff of Orofino, Rob (Laurie) of Coeur d'Alene; four grandchildren, Jordyn Creighton (Brent) of Nampa, D.J. (Alicia) of Reno, Nev., Jaime Kiff (Adam) of Oklahoma City, Okla., and Stephanie Wright of Wichita, Kan., and two great grandchildren, Deklyn Creighton and Ellery Kiff.

Services will be conducted at 11 a.m. on May 4 at Clearwater Valley High School in Kooskia. The family requests, in lieu of flowers, memorials could be donations to the Syringa Hospice Program or financial assistance with the Clearwater Valley High School weight program.

Photo: David Charles Wright

Mary Pankey, 84, Kooskia

Mary passed away Friday, April 19th at Orofino Hospital, under the excellent and compassionate care of Dr. Brown and the hospital staff. Mary was born in her childhood home at Kooskia, Idaho, on March 24th, 1940. The home was in her family for nearly nine decades.

Mary attended the Kooskia schools, graduating as Salutatorian at Clearwater Valley High School (CVHS) in 1958.

After a couple of years attending the University of Idaho at Moscow, Idaho, she returned to Kooskia and married Steve Pankey, a local merchant, on May 5th, 1962. They missed their upcoming (63 year) anniversary by two weeks.

Mary was known for her quiet reserve and strength of character. She loved her home and garden and kept them full of beautiful plants and flowers.

Mrs. Harris, a local school teacher, had trained Mary in bookkeeping during high school; and after getting married she pursued that calling throughout her life-doing the books/accounting for the various family enterprises. She also loved to read and as such, read a mountain of books in her lifetime. Mary got interested in genealogy and spent over 20 years researching her family lineage. She wrote an excellent history of her family that dated all the way back to the 1500s.

She was preceded in death by her parents, Elmer and Marcella Parsell; her brother, Richard "Dick" Parsell; her brother, Neal "Pete" Parsell; her brother-in-law, Gene (Margaret) Pankey; and her daughter, Mary Michelle Pankey.

She is survived by her husband, Steve Pankey; daughter, Julieann Pankey Mamula, son-in-law Tyler Mamula; grandsons, Gabriel Kirish and Jaxon Mamula; brother-in-law, Jim (Cheryln) Pankey; sister-in-law, Lynda (Leon) Swinehart; and many nieces and nephews.

Mary was a very private person and requested to have no memorial and no service.

Trenary Funeral Home is caring for arrangements.

James Theodore Woolbright, 34, Woodland

James Theodore Woolbright was born the second of two children, and the only son of James Marvin and Janis Carol (Hilliker) Woolbright in McMinnville, Yamhill County, Oregon on May 18, 1989. His family, having recently moved from Enterprise, Oregon lived in McMinnville for the next 10 years, during which he was home schooled along with his older sister Julie Ann (Betsy).

Jimmy, as he was known during his childhood and youth, often went on "field trips" with his family, traveling to museums, national and state parks, sites of historical and geologic interest, places of interesting flora and fauna.

The excellent education provided primarily by his dedicated mother's skilled and diligent efforts set for him a pattern of self-directed learning that continued for the rest of his life and served him well.

At an early age James was led by his mother into a personal and saving relationship with the Lord Jesus, thus beginning his life-long pilgrimage in pursuit of deeper knowledge of, increased closeness to, and more perfect imitation of his Creator and Redeemer.

From the time he was about 5 until about age 15, he participated with his sister in the AWANA program, and like his sister, was an efficient and voracious "memorizing machine", storing vast portions of scripture, and winning many awards, certificates, and trophies.

At the age of 10 James's family moved to live with his paternal grandmother on a small acreage near Kennewick, Wash.

After spending about a year there, they moved to Woodland, where he lived on his family's small farm until his death.

Computers, Legos, photography, cars, select genres of music (best typified by that of John Michael Talbot), literature and poetry, history, writing, gardening and horticulture all captured his interest for periods of time, but Bible - all things Bible - biblical archaeology, ancient Near East geopolitical history, customs of ancient peoples of the Near East, biblical hermeneutics, biblical languages, analysis and comparison of pseudepigraphal and apocryphal texts - all these and subjects allied to them dominated his interest, time, and energy for the last 20 years of his life and he became, in the eyes of an astute, unbiased observer of excellent biblical scholars (his father!), a biblical scholar of highest research excellence, unmatched scholastic integrity, and unparalleled perceptivity, discernment and analysis of patterns in text. In his research he was exhaustively thorough, scrupulously honest, rigorously self-critical, diligence in literary and source comparisons. In writing he was relentlessly perfectionistic in matters of grammar, logical flow of thought, and smoothness of style. His keen eye, his careful attention to detail, his unflagging pursuit of perfection put him in some demand as a personal editor.

His demeanor was quiet, unassuming, even meek, but his communication was direct, clear, unambiguous, and elucidating. He did not offer commentary on anything speculatively, preferring not to speak at all if not with certainty and authority. In questions of Bible-related concerns he never failed to provide answers that were quietly delivered but altogether satisfying.

Although James was a serious person who eschewed trivial concerns and flippancy, and avoided those persons who were habitually trivial or flippant, and although he often appeared to be wearing a scowl, the switch on his humor apparatus was never turned to the "off" position; his humor was keen, active, dry, always engaged.

Although James was a quiet person who preferred to remain in secondary background roles, and to be unnoticed, all who had opportunity to know him recognized in him a treasure of the very most noble of character qualities: in dealing with others - gentleness, quietness, loyalty, tenderheartedness, compassion, mercy, and a forgiving, unbiased spirit that sought to make peace, serving others before himself; with regard to himself and his duties and tasks - diligent, thorough, reliable, responsible, untiringly conscientious in work for himself or for others, relentless in pursuit of duty; and with regard to his Creator - unceasing in pursuit of the high calling of Christ, to be conformed to His image, to be a man after His heart.

James passed away sometime the morning of Monday, March 18 of natural causes. Although autopsy results remain pending, it is thought that his death was, as was his mother's, related to Marfan syndrome and rupture of an aneurysm of a major blood vessel.

"Only one life, so soon will be passed -- only what's done for Christ will last."

James was only recently preceded in death by his mother, Janis, with whom he was very close, and to whose care he dedicated himself when she was not well and his father was away working.

He is survived by his father, James M. Woolbright; his sister, Julie Ann (Betsy) Woolbright; nieces Andrea and Miles, all of Woodland; his grandmother, Jane Woolbright; sister, Polly Silvas (Reuben); cousins, Karina and Kendra; sister Connie (Allen), of Kennewick, Wash., and his cats.

Funeral will be at 11 a.m. Saturday, April 20, 2024 at Kamiah Bible Church, 521 10th St., Kamiah, Idaho. A catered lunch will follow. Those who wish to do so may bring a dessert.

Burial will be the following day, Sunday, April 21, after regular morning worship service at Woodland Friends Church. Graveside service and burial will be in the Woodland Cemetery, which adjoins the church. All who wish to attend Sunday school and / or morning worship service at Woodland Friends Church are welcomed to do so. At six o'clock Sunday evening there will be, in the basement of Woodland Friends Church, a fellowship night in his honor. All are invited to attend and enjoy provided food, and are encouraged to bring their own covered dish food or dessert if desired.

The Woolbright family thanks Blackmer Funeral Home of Grangeville for their expert and compassionate assistance.

Photo: James Theodore Woolbright

Coral Jane Sawyer Lee, 73, Orofino

Coral Jane Sawyer Lee went home to be with Jesus on Tuesday, April 9, 2024 from a brain aneurysm.

Coral was born on April 28, 1950 in Loup City, Nebraska to Keith and Vivian Sawyer. At 4 years old, Coral and her family moved to Upper Fords Creek where she lived most of her life. One of her many prides was having three generations living on this property and all using the same bus stop throughout the years.

Coral met the love of her life in the office at Orofino High School in 1967. They married two years later and started building their family in 1971 when they had their first son, Bruce and Mark the following January in 1972.

To know Coral was to absolutely love her. Her heart of gold shown in many facets. From fostering several children to being the Clearwater County Grandma or Auntie Coral, she loved kids! Coral volunteered many summers as nurse for 4-H Camp and the Sixth Grade Forestry Tour. She truly loved educating youth on managing their own health care and safety measures.

Four years ago, Coral, along with her sister Christine, restarted the Orofino Adventist Christian School. She was a very active member of the Orofino Seventh-day Adventist Church and lived out her faith daily. She loved Jesus with all her heart.