Janet Louise Windsor Thompson, 80, of Thurmont, MD, passed away on Friday, February 25, 2022 from heart failure at MedStar Washington Hospital Center.

Janet was born on February 7, 1942 to Alvin Richard Windsor & Ruth L. Hunter Windsor of Rockville, MD.

Janet graduated from Richard Montgomery High School in 1960.

In 2000, Janet met her spouse, Joseph Andrew Thompson in Germantown, MD. They were married May 18, 2002.

Surviving in addition to her husband Joe, are Suzanne M. Sondberg, Michael W. Purdum Sr., Michael A. Thompson, Jessica S. Frank, and Daniel C. Thompson. Predeceased by daughter Deanna K. Purdum. Surviving nine grandchildren, Elizabeth M. Sondberg, Hannah D. Sondberg, Jared M. Purdum, Holly N. Welty, Michael W. Purdum Jr., Mark B. Purdum, River Frank, Daphne Frank and Amelia Thompson, and two great grandchildren Mason M. Welty, and Benjamin R. Welty.

Surviving siblings of Janet are Donald Eldridge Windsor & William Henry Windsor, predeceased by Alvin Richard Windsor Jr., & Melvin Eugene Windsor.

Janet worked at FDA as an Ethics Administrator. She worked at FDA in Rockville, MD from 1976 to 2003. After retiring from the FDA, Janet went on to join the DAR of Frederick, MD.

Janet enjoyed promoting the history preservation, genealogy, and education of the DAR.

In retirement, Janet spent her time extensively researching her family genealogy. Her favorite activity was tending to her garden, specifically her rose bushes. Janet was a very social person, who loved to connect with friends and family. An outgoing and phenomenal woman, Janet would make acquaintances wherever she would go.

A memorial service is scheduled for Saturday, March 12, 2022 At Molesworth-Williams Funeral Home, 26401 Ridge Road, Damascus, MD. Visitation is from 10:00 am until services begin at 11:00 am. The interment will be private.

In lieu of flowers, the family would welcome a donation to the American Heart Association.

Online condolences may be shared with the family on our website at www.molesworthwilliams.com