Localize Commerce extension resources and label files

This article explains how to modify labels in the point of sale (POS) user interface (UI), POS messages (error, warning, and information), receipt labels, and error messages for Commerce Scale Unit or Commerce Runtime Services (CRT). You can also add custom error messages for in the same way. However, for new POS extension labels, you should use the localization framework in the POS extension.

POS labels and messages (error, warning, and information)

This section explains how to modify POS UI labels and POS messages by overriding the default strings.

Override POS UI labels and messages

You can override the default strings in the POS by using the language text entries on the Language text page. Follow these steps to change POS strings.

Sign in to Commerce.

Go to Retail and Commerce > Channel setup > POS setup > POS profiles > Language text.

On the Language text page, on the POS tab, in the POS language text grid, select the Add button to add the language ID, text ID, and text for the string that you want to override.

For example, you want to change the label of the Operator ID field on the POS sign-in page to Employee ID for US English (en-us). In this case, add the following entry in the POS language text grid.

Language ID Text ID Text en-us 502 Employee ID

Note

For information about how to get the text ID for POS strings, see the next section.

On the Action Pane, select Save.

Go to Retail and Commerce > Retail and Commerce IT > Distribution schedule.

Select the Registers (1090) job, and then select Run now.

After the data is pushed, you'll need to wait up to one hour for the localized string cache to refresh. When the refresh of the string cache is complete, sign out and sign back in to Store Commerce to display the changed labels. You can also force a cache refresh by restarting Retail Server.

Get the text ID for POS strings

To get the text ID for a POS string, open Store Commerce for web. Press F12 to launch the developer command tools and select the Console tab to open the JavaScript console. Run the Commerce.Helpers.DeveloperModeHelper.setDeveloperMode(true); command in the JavaScript console to turn on the developer mode.

After enabling the developer mode in the JavaScript console, navigate to the Settings page in POS, under the Developer mode, set Developer Mode to Yes. Set Show Strings IDs to Yes. Sign out of the POS, and then sign in again. The POS now shows the strings IDs in front of all the labels and messages.

Error messages or receipt strings

This section explains how to modify error messages, or receipt strings, by overriding the default strings. It also explains how you can add new, custom error messages, or receipt strings.

Override error messages or receipt strings

Sign in to Commerce.

Go to Retail and Commerce > Channel setup > POS setup > POS profiles > Language text.

On the Language text page, click the Add button to add the language ID, text ID, and text for the string that you want to override.

For example, when users enter an incorrect user name or password during sign-in, the POS shows the following error message: "We didn't recognize the user name or password. Please try again." For US English, you want to change the message to "Please enter valid user name or password." In this case, add the following entry in the language text grid.

Language ID Text ID Text en-us Microsoft_Dynamics_Commerce_Runtime_InvalidAuthenticationCredentials Please enter valid user name or password

Note

For information about how to get the text ID for error messages and receipt strings, see the next section.

On the Action Pane, select Save.

Go to Retail and Commerce > Retail and Commerce IT > Distribution schedule.

Select the Registers (1090) job, and then select Run now.

Get the text ID for messages or receipt strings

Go to …\RetailSDK\Documents\Resources.

In Visual Studio, open one of the following resource files:

To modify error messages: RuntimeExceptionMessages.resx

To modify receipt strings: RuntimeReceiptMessages.resx

For every message in the resource file, Visual Studio shows a name and a value.

In the Value column, search for the text that you want to change.

Copy the name that corresponds to that value. You enter this name as the text ID in the language text grid.

Add custom error messages or receipt strings

You can also add new error messages or new receipt strings, on the Language text page. In this way, you support localization instead of hard-coding everything in the code.

For example, you want to add a new exception message in US English (en-us) and UK English (en-uk). In this case, add entries that resemble the follow entries on the Language text page.

Language ID Text ID Text en-us Microsoft_Dynamics_Commerce_CustomId1 My new message in US English en-uk Microsoft_Dynamics_Commerce_CustomId1 My new message in UK English

The following example shows how to use this new message in your CRT extension code.