The Traffic Records Management, Reporting and Analysis Division of the Virginia Highway Safety Office (VAHSO) supports Virginia's commitment to transportation safety by managing and analyzing the millions of traffic crash records housed in Virginia’s traffic records information system. The data that is collected, stored and analyzed by this Division is shared with local, state and federal entities across Virginia to assist them with their efforts to decrease traffic crashes, injuries and fatalities.

The Traffic Records Management, Reporting and Analysis Division also engages in strategic planning to ensure the effective use of Virginia traffic records information to support and highlight the Commonwealth’s safety programs and grant funding initiatives.

Services

The services provided by the Traffic Records Management, Reporting and Analysis Division include:

Data Management and Analysis

Our experienced data management and analysis staff of analysts perform critical analysis in support of Virginia’s safety initiatives, including:

Data architecture, data management and trend data analysis

Crash data mapping and analysis

Commercial vehicle analysis and reporting (CVARS)

Fatality analysis and reporting (FARS)

Crash, conviction, license driver and registered vehicle data

Virginia Traffic Crash Facts publication and related supplemental crash facts.

Commercial Vehicle Analysis Reporting System (CVARS)

Virginia’s CVARS program is to improve the quality, completeness, timeliness and quantity of data collected about commercial motor vehicle crashes in support of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration's (FMCSA) data requirements. This data will be used to evaluate program effectiveness, identify problems and trends in crash and safety data reporting, and help target spending to support Virginia’s efforts to improve commercial motor vehicle safety.

Fatality Analysis and Reporting System (VA FARS)

Virginia, in a cooperative agreement with NHTSA, is responsible for providing fatality data on Virginia. The Fatality Analysis Reporting System (FARS) contains data on a census of fatal traffic crashes within the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. To be included in FARS, a crash must involve a motor vehicle traveling on a trafficway customarily open to the public and result in the death of a person (occupant of a vehicle or a non-occupant) within 30 days of the crash.

For more information, visit the Federal FARS website at: www.fars.nhtsa.dot.gov.

Safety Program Management and Oversight

Our staff also provides oversight management and analytical expertise to statewide traffic committees including: