This report details cases of femicide, suspicious deaths of women, as well as the arrest and imprisonment of Kurdish women activists and their removal from their positions between 25 November 2022 and 25 November 2023.

According to this report, at least 23 Kurdish women were murdered by male family members during this period. The deaths of three others were also reported as suspicious and linked to femicide. The motives for 11 cases were cited as “honour-related,” eight cases involve “family disputes” or divorce requests. The motives for the murders of three women remain unclear.

Out of the confirmed 23 cases, 10 were killed with firearms, nine through strangulation, one by burning, one with a knife, and one with hammer blows. The method of killing for one victim is unknown. The perpetrators were all close family members, including fathers, brothers, husbands, ex-husbands, and relatives such as cousins.

Eight of the victims were single, and 14 were married. One had separated from her husband. Seven of the confirmed cases of femicide, and one suspicious case, involved victims under the age of 18, with six of them being victims of child marriage and forced marriage.

Six of the murdered women resided in urban areas, while 17 lived in rural areas. By provincial distribution, 10 victims were from West Azerbaijan Province, eight from Kermanshah Province, four from Kurdistan Province, and one from Ilam Province.

The KHRN has been able to directly document, through its own sources or by referencing other credible sources, 23 cases of femicide and three suspicious deaths of women:

Firouzeh Moradi, a 26-year-old from Kermanshah, was killed in January 2023 during a family dispute, stabbed by her brother. The motive for this murder is not precisely known.

Negin Rostami, from Sanandaj in Kurdistan Province, residing in the village of Ney in Marivan, Kurdistan Province, was set on fire by her ex-husband on 23 January 2023. Six days later, on 29 January, she succumbed to severe burns. The motive for this murder is not precisely known.

Rezvan Nadimi, a 26-year-old from the village of Zivieh in Kamyaran, Kurdistan Province, was shot by her ex-husband on 31 January 2023. Nadimi had reportedly separated from her husband two years earlier due to his addiction. The ex-husband, for reasons unknown, shot her in the head, abdomen, and leg, causing her death. She was the mother of a daughter and a son.

Marefat Karimi, from Orumiyeh in West Azerbaijan Province and the mother of a five-year-old daughter, was murdered 16 February 2023, due to opposing her husband’s marriage to a second woman. Evidence suggests that her husband killed her by strangulation, and visible bruising was found on Karimi’s neck. Reportedly, after the death of his brother, the husband planned to marry his wife, but Karimi opposed the decision. After the murder, the husband was detained by the police.

Maryam Soleymani, a 34-year-old mother of three children from the village of Givaran in Khoy, West Azerbaijan Province, was hung on 14 April 2023 by her father and brothers in the village of Ghezel Aghol in Khoy.

The motive for the murder of Soleymani is said to be related to the public release of private images and videos by an abusive man. Maryam’s husband, facing pressure from his family to divorce her, announced that their young child had accidentally sent the video from her phone. Soleymani was reportedly asking her husband for help while her brothers and father took her away and hanged her at midnight.

Soleymani was forced by her family into becoming a child bride at the age of 13.

Donya Rezaei, 19 years old from the village of Dar Derafsh-e Khanomabad in Kermanshah Province, was strangled to death 16 April 2023, by a male family member for “having a relationship with a man”.

Sharivan Hadizadeh, 24 years old from the village of Ghezel Aghol in Khoy, West Azerbaijan Province, was shot by her husband on 29 April 2023, due to suspicions of having a relationship with her cousin. The young woman’s cousin was also killed in the shooting.

Parastou Shahbazi, an 18-year-old mother of a young child from the village of Miraki in Dehgolan, Kurdistan Province, was hanged and stabbed multiple times by her husband on 29 May 2023 after facing physical abuse.

Shahbazi was a victim of child marriage and after his parents’ divorce and his mother’s remarriage, she was forced to marry by his stepfather at the age of 12. Reportedly, her husband, in addition to financial poverty, suffered severely from substance abuse addiction. Most of the time, he subjected Shahbazi to physical abuse and violence.

A 38-year-old woman in Ilam was murdered on 3 June 2023, due to what is termed as “family disputes” by her 68-year-old father. Further details on this case are not available.

Rojin Azimi, 17 years old from the village of Akhkand in Dehgolan, Kurdistan Province, was killed on 3 June 2023, by her brother using multiple axe blows, on the suspicion of having a relationship with a young man.

An activist in Dehgolan provided details of this killing in an interview with Etemad newspaper and said: “About a year ago, Rojin had an accident while in a car with a boy. The story reached this girl’s family, and her father kicked her out of the house. She spent one year in the welfare centre in Sanandaj until recently when her father went there and brought her daughter back home. When Rojin returned to their village, rumours and gossip started. The villagers, relatives, and family members behind her back were saying that her family was dishonourable, until the day of the incident when Rojin’s brother, with a small axe […], murdered his sister.”

Zilan Ayvaz, 15 years old from the village of Ziveh in Piranshahr, West Azerbaijan Province, was shot by her father on 7 July 2023. The motive for killing his daughter was solely based on “receiving a message from a boy.” According to Zilan’s uncle, she had been forced to quit school three years prior to the murder.

Raheleh Rahdar, 15 years old from the village of Razi in the Qatur County of Khoy, West Azerbaijan Province, was strangled by her father and mother 13 July 2023, on the accusation of “having a relationship with a man other than her husband”.

Raheleh was a victim of forced marriage at the age of 12, pressured by her father and mother to marry a man approximately 10 to 15 years older than her. She had moved to Orumiyeh, West Azerbaijan Province, after marriage.

Tahereh Sadeghi, 30 years old from Malekshahi, Ilam Province, suspiciously lost her life on 1 August 2023. Her husband told her parents over the phone that she had committed suicide by taking pills, while her lifeless body was discovered with a scarf tied around her neck and visible bruises on her body.

Tahereh had reportedly previously experienced conflicts and physical abuse from her husband and his family.

Mona Aghaei, 14 years old from the village of Kani Kaboud, living in Ravansar, Kermanshah Province, died under suspicious circumstances on 24 August 2023. Some sources of the Kurdistan Human Rights Network (KHRN) in Ravansar said that Mona was killed by her brother because she intended to divorce her husband, while others attribute her death to suicide due to family pressure against divorce. Aghaei was a victim of child marriage and forced marriage.

Mahya Naderi, 14 years old from Sarpol-e Zahab, Kermanshah Province, was killed by her cousin with a hunting rifle on 8 September 2023. Reportedly, she was killed with the knowledge of Naderi’s father and due to her “romantic relationship with a boy and her escape from home”.

On 18 September 2023, the lifeless body of 19-year-old Hayedeh Hassanzadeh was found in the Sardasht Dam in West Azerbaijan Province, with her feet bound by a cement block. After the autopsy and subsequent investigations, it became evident that this adolescent girl had been murdered by her father four months prior. The family had previously claimed that Hayedeh had run away from home and left the country. Further inquiries revealed that her father was the perpetrator, who justified the murder by stating, “My daughter did not pay attention my words and did not come home until late”.

Fatemeh Mohammad-Panahi, a 17-year-old from the village of Marghan in Sardasht, West Azerbaijan Province, was shot and killed by her two stepbrothers and her husband. Mohammad-Panahi, a victim of forced child marriage, sought separation from her husband, who was her cousin, one year after their marriage, but her family opposed this decision. According to one of the relatives, the perpetrators had a history of violence against women, and Fatemeh’s father had four wives.

Shahin Ebrahimzadeh, 21 years old from the village of Gulan in the Sardasht district of West Azerbaijan province, was strangled to death by her father and uncle on 5 October 2023. Shahin, who had married against her father’s wishes a few years earlier, separated from her husband after two years and returned to her parents’ home. Suspecting her involvement with a new suitor, her father and uncle took her life.

Trouskeh Abdollahzadeh, a 21-year-old mother of two children from the village of Kaseh Garan who lived in Piranshahr, West Azerbaijan Province, was killed on 14 October 2023 by her father, her father-in-law, and her husband. The motive for the murder of this young woman, who was forced into marriage at the age of 13 with her cousin, was labelled as “having telephone contact with a man”. Abdollahzadeh was killed by beating, strangulation and severe blows to the neck.

Somayyeh Mam-Khezri, from the village of Sheykhlar in Bukan, West Azerbaijan Province, suspiciously lost her life on 18 October 2023. Initially declared a suicide, it was later suggested that her ex-husband, upon learning of her intention to marry someone else, murdered her and then committed suicide.

Vida Dehghan Piranjough, a 20-year-old mother of one child from the village of Piranjough in the Soma-ye Bradost area of Orumiyeh, living in Orumiyeh, was strangled to death by her 15-year-old brother on 28 October 2023, on suspicion of having an “extramarital sexual relationship”. Vida was reportedly living separately from her husband for about two years due to conflicts.

22/23. Negar Mahmoudi, from Gilangharb in Kermanshah Province, was shot by her ex-husband On 14 November 2023. Mahmoudi and her father were attacked by her ex-husband on the way to her workplace. Negar’s father was severely injured. The ex-husband then went to Mahmoudi’s mother’s house and shot her as well. The motive for these killings was cited as “family disputes”.

24/25/26. On 19 November 2023, a 52-year-old man in the village of Qazanchi in Kermanshah Province killed three women from his family. He used a weapon to murder his wife, his sister-in-law, and the bride of the family and later turned himself in to the Qazanchi police station. The man attributed these killings to “family disputes.”

Armita Geravand, born on 2 April 2006, in Kermanshah, comes from a family in Kouhdasht, Lorestan province, which has been residing in Tehran in recent years. On 1 October 2023, the 17-year-old encountered an assault by government agents, commonly known as the morality police, on the Shohada Metro line in Tehran for not wearing a hijab. Following the blow to her head, she lost consciousness.

Since the transfer of their daughter to a military hospital and the widespread dissemination of news about Geravand’s beatings by government agents in Tehran’s Shohada Metro line due to her hijab, her family was under the control and pressure of security forces. They were even forced to participate in television interviews to deny the news of their daughter’s beating by government agents.

After announcing the news of Geravand’s death, the Islamic Republic first took her body hostage, preventing its transfer for burial in Kermanshah, her birthplace or Kuhdasht, the residence of her paternal and maternal relatives. The funeral ceremony in Tehran was also heavily controlled by security forces, resulting in the detention of dozens of people, including Geravand’s relatives, families of protesters killed during last year’s anti-government protests, and civil and political activists.

Arrests, sentences, political prisoners

In continuation of this report, we will take a look at instances of arrests, prison sentences, and dismissals for Kurdish women activists, as well as the situation of Kurdish women political prisoners from November 25, 2022, to November 25, 2023.

In the past year, at least 39 Kurdish women have been arrested by security forces in various cities in Kurdistan on various charges. Different sentences have been issued for 16 Kurdish women, with three Kurdish women being transferred to prison for the execution of sentences, and at least four Kurdish women being expelled from their jobs due to political or labour activities.