Synopsis

DFS is a new operating company within Dover Corporation that brings together several iconic brands within the retail fuel industry such as Tokheim, Wayne Fueling Systems (“Wayne”), ClearView, Fairbanks, ProGauge, and OPW’s Fuel Management Systems.

Dover Fueling Solutions (DFS), a Dover company, delivers advanced fuel dispensing equipment, electronic systems and payment, fleet systems, automatic tank gauging and wet-stock management . The new manufacturing plant in Navi Mumbai, India will apply DFS’ latest global manufacturing practices and produce dispensers with advanced fraud resistant features. We spoke with David Crouse, President of DFS, on the occasion of the factory inauguration in Navi Mumbai.

On Dover Fueling Solutions

DFS is a new operating company within Dover Corporation that brings together several iconic brands within the retail fuel industry such as Tokheim, Wayne Fueling Systems (“Wayne”), ClearView, Fairbanks, ProGauge, and OPW’s Fuel Management Systems. The collective products, systems, services and human-resources of these newly combined companies create an entity capable of doing what no one else in the industry can: provide a true end-to-end retail forecourt solution.

Why this new factory in India?

Currently, we have manufacturing facilities in the USA, Brazil, UK, the Netherlands, Sweden, France, China, and Brazil. We also had a manufacturing facility for Tokheim in Navi Mumbai. Dover’s aspirations for this market and surrounding region require a best-in-class manufacturing facility, which we are creating with this new factory.

Our significant investment in manufacturing and engineering resources is a testament to our commitment to this region. We now seek to expand our strategic partnerships with our customers by bringing cutting edge technology and solutions in the dispenser and automation systems space.

How do you see competitiveness of Indian manufacturing verses China and other global centres?

India is one of the key best-value countries from a manufacturing and sourcing perspective. Recent moves like GST and ‘Make In India’ initiative are already reflecting an improved competitiveness for the country.

All Major MNCs now use their India factory as a major export base, what is your plan?

Our legacy India factory already exported to 26 countries in the Middle East and Africa. With the significant improvement of our new facility which spans 90,000 square feet and has expanded capacity to produce a significant volume of dispensers per year, the team is now challenged to grow the share of exports from this factory.

How do you see the market in India?

Tokheim and Wayne have been leading and trusted brands in India for quite some time. However, we see even more future potential in this region with our brands. This is due in part because of the policy changes like oil price deregulation, the withdrawal of marketing subsidies, a push for ‘Make In India’ and mobile payment. Now with the entry of our global customers like Shell, Total and BP in this market, we are enthusiastic about additional opportunities here.

We have recently won two consecutive major dispenser orders from Bharat Petroleum Corporation. We are also very proud of our long association with our key customers like IOCL, Reliance, HPCL and Essar through our brands of Tokheim, Wayne as well as our sister company of OPW, which is celebrating its 125 years as a business this year.

How do you see your business in India & how do you compare it with other major markets?

DFS has a strong team in the country with extensive industry experience and domain knowledge. With this new production facility, we are now resourced to deliver best-in-class products and services required by this region. Most of our major customers see value in long term strategic partnerships. However, a major part of the dispenser and automation procurement in this market is still dominated by L1 tenders and reverse auctions. This can challenge the introduction of new technology to this market.

In India, 2030 has been declared as the year when all cars will be electric and by 2022 all railway locomotives will move away from diesel.

What future do you see for the Oil Marketing industry as a whole?

Recent communications by environmental regulators and government agencies have been very aggressive around electric vehicles and vapor recovery for existing retail sites, due to air quality concerns. These directives and communications provide business opportunities for DFS.

First, we are working with national oil companies on vapor recovery initiatives and technology. DFS will leverage Wayne and Tokheim technology from other regions to create a competitive and high technology vapor recovery solution for India.

Second, regarding electric cars and electric vehicle (EV) charging, DFS continues to evaluate OEMs in the EV charging space for potential partnerships. DFS is especially focused on the DC faster charging space (Level 4 charging).

The 2030 date mentioned in the question is aggressive, but not completely inconsistent with several projections for the population of electric vehicles in India. Despite government mandates, it is more likely that implementation of electric vehicles may take longer than projected.

Prior to DFS, you were the President of OPW. What do you see the benefit for customers from OPW and DFS synergy?

With the fast changing pace of the oil marketing space, discrete purchases are being increasingly replaced by end-to-end solutions. Dover, who owns both DFS and OPW, is the only company in the world that can offer a full spectrum of customizable products and solutions for fuel retailing forecourts. In Asia-Pacific, and in India, there is common leadership for both DFS and OPW that enables us to deliver this benefit to our customers.

What is your message for the customers?

DFS and OPW exist to deliver valuable solutions to our customers. Our singular focus is to find ways in which we can enable our customers to be more successful. We believe the changes we are making in India will enable us to vastly augment the value we can create for our customer base. We believe the combined product and solutions portfolio, of DFS and OPW, provides a true end-to-end solution for our customers. We look forward to our long term commitment to serving our customers in India.

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News, Budget 2024 Events and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News, Budget 2024 Events and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless

Tata Consumer Products needs a Starbucks ‘shot’ to increase its market value exponentially

Ports to power, what companies facing insolvency mean for Adani Group

A list of 20 large-cap stocks where you have lost money big time.

The challenges dotting India’s push for 6G leadership

Are Yamaha dealer IPO investors and Sir Isaac Newton on the same page?

The many gaps in conflict of interest allegations against Sebi chief, other Indian regulators

1

2

3