Cinema poster

Country United States Directed by Jay Roach Release Date 1999 Language English

German Studio Eric's Boy

Moving Pictures

Team Todd Distributor New Line Cinema

Main Cast Character Actor Austin Powers / Dr. Evil/ Fat Bastard Mike Myers Felicity Shagwell Heather Graham Basil Exposition Michael York Number Two Robert Wagner Young Number Two Rob Lowe Scott Evil Seth Green Frau Farbissina Mindy Sterling Bazooka Marksman Joe Kevin Durand Robin Swallows Gia Carides Mustafa Will Ferrell

The following weapons were used in the film Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me:

Pistols

Walther PPK/S

Austin Powers (Mike Myers) uses a Walther PPK/S in .380 as his sidearm throughout the film. The PPK/S pistols seen in the film were custom finished in nickel instead of the standard high polished bluing.

Pearl grips were used for some scenes, but for others they were changed back to standard black plastic grips. This was probably to prevent damage to the pearl grips during stunt work. There were three identical guns used on-set - one was later donated to the Walther Museum, while the other two remain in the inventory of Independent Studio Services (which supplied the guns for the film). These guns were used on all three of the Austin Powers movies.

Colt M1911A1

Mustafa (Will Ferrell) uses an M1911A1 to try to kill Austin Powers (Mike Myers) and Felicity Shagwell (Heather Graham) in a scene were he chases them in a car.

Luger P08

Towards the end of the film, Frau Farbissina (Mindy Sterling) attempts to shoot Austin (Mike Myers) with a Luger P08, but misses him.

Revolvers

Smith & Wesson Model 19 (Nickel)

Felicity Shagwell (Heather Graham), Austin's partner in this movie, uses a nickel-plated Smith & Wesson Model 19 with pearl grips.

Dan Wesson VH-15

At the end of the film, Fat Bastard (Mike Myers) uses a stainless Dan Wesson VH-15 to threaten both Austin (Mike Myers) and Felicity (Heather Graham) before he is disarmed and stopped by Felicity.

Submachine Guns

MP40

Bazooka Marksman Joe (Kevin Durand), one of Dr. Evil's assassins, uses an MP40 when Austin travels back to 1969. Instead of killing Austin Powers, the assassin ends up shooting his partner Robin Swallows (Gia Carides) whom Austin uses as a ridiculously hard to kill human shield.

Sten MK II

All of Dr. Evil's (Mike Myers) Henchmen on his private island are armed with Sten Mk II submachine guns.

Kimel AP-9

Towards the end of the film, Austin Powers (Mike Myers) shoots Dr. Evil (also Mike Myers) in the leg with a satin nicked-plated Kimel AP-9 with a custom muzzle brake. Many of Dr. Evil's moon unit henchmen also use theses SMGs. The guns might have been brought back to 1969 with Dr. Evil's time machine, explaining their seemingly anachronistic appearance. The customized prop was later used as part of the arsenal compiled by Justin Hammer in the 2010 film Iron Man 2.

Rifles / Carbines

FN FAL

FN FAL rifles (standing in for the British Commonwealth L1A1 Self Loading Rifle) were seen in the hands of British troops throughout the film.

XM177E1 Carbine (mock-up)

The British soldiers that help Austin and Felicity track down Fat Bastard (Mike Myers) are armed with Colt XM177E1 Carbines. These "XM177s" are actually mock-ups - They have M16A2-style upper receivers and M16/SP1-style lower receivers (the former feature is anachronistic), which means that they are probably full-auto conversions of AR-15A2 Sporter II carbines with the barrels cut down and fake XM177 flash hiders installed.

M16

Slung on the backs of the US Army "privates" in the sequence about the shape of Doctor Evil's rocket-ship are original M16 Rifles.

Other

M20A1 "Super Bazooka"