There are many eyelash extension manufacturers in South Korea. In this blog post, we will provide you with a list of the top 10 so that you can choose the right one for your needs.

These companies have everything from budget-friendly to premium quality extensions available. Pick out your favorite company, and get those lashes today!

Focus Lashes

Focus Lashes were founded in 2010, located in Qingdao, China. They develop a clever, quick, and simple-to-order eyelash service that maximizes efficiency while minimizing expenditures.

As a top eyelash extension manufacturer, they understand the pain point for most eyelash brands. And they are confident to assist any lash business whether the client is small or big.

HS International

Founded in 2009, HS International is the leading supplier of eyelash extension products in South Korea.

In 2012, they launched their first brand Neicha. And now they have seven brands. Their products are famous in Russia and Central Asia.

JL International

For over 20 years, JL International has specialized in high-quality beauty goods, particularly eyelash-related, as well as tools and accessories.

They not only provide excellent products but also they cover full-service. They try their best to take care of customers’ needs and concerns more efficiently.

Beauty Channel

Established in 1999, Beauty Channel has been providing all kinds of products related to eyelash extensions. Their products are of the best quality and are done by hand.

Incredibly, they are the first company to invent fake eyelashes. They export their items across the world and provide product advice to their clients.

Eyemee The Beauty

Eyemee is the prominent original manufacturer and supplier of lashes and things for eyelash extensions. Their products have been approved as the worldwide standard in the eyelash extension industry by both the United States and Europe.

They are the first company to develop formaldehyde-free glue and J-curl lashes. They keep creating new products to be ahead of the industry.

I-Beauty

I-Beauty is a cosmetic company founded in 2003 and specializes in eyelash extensions and the beauty business. Their products have been exported to 40 countries already.

They continue to upgrade and develop new products to meet the demands of clients.

Macy Beauty

Macy is a high-quality manufacturer and exporter of eyelash extension products, cosmetics, and Pro kits. They were in the field of the beauty industry in 2005 and have been exported the products to over 54 countries.

To meet different customers’ demands, they have more than 30 different models in over 1800 sizes in their lash collection.

GloviKorea

GloviKorea launched the wholesale and retail business of eyelash extension in 2007. They strive for Korean technology and harmony of beauty that is an innovation.

Many other countries, such as China, Mongolia, Russia, and Australia, purchase their lash products as a top brand.

Joonyangsa

Since 2002, Jongyongsa has been producing fake eyelashes extension lashes and adhesives in Seoul, South Korea.

Their products have been certificated in many countries such as the USA and Australia.

Pinkiss Korea

Pinkiss Korea has been manufactured and exported eyelash products for around two decades. They provide high-quality, affordable products to many nations, including Japan, Europe, the United States of America, Russia, Africa, the Middle East, and other regions.

They are sure that they can satisfy their clients’ demands since to their extensive, highly qualified expertise and technology.

Conclusion

There are plenty of eyelash extension manufacturers in South Korea, one of the most important countries that produce high-quality products.

With the top 10 manufacturers above, you will be able to choose a lash factory that can meet all your demands.

Related Articles:

Top 10 Private Label Eyelash Extension Manufacturers in China

Top 12 Eyelash Extension Vendors in the USA

Top 6 Eyelash Extension Suppliers in the UK

Top 10 Eyelash Extension Suppliers in Australia

Top 8 Eyelash Extension Suppliers in Singapore

Top 5 Eyelash Extension Suppliers in Malaysia

Top 5 Eyelash Extension Suppliers in The Philippines

Top 8 Eyelash Extension Manufacturers in Vietnam

Top 5 Eyelash Extension Manufacturers in Indonesia

Top 5 Eyelash Extension Suppliers in Japan

Top 5 Eyelash Extension Wholesalers In Canada

Top 6 Eyelash Extensions Wholesalers in the USA

Top 5 Eyelash Extensions Wholesalers in Singapore