Canadian Books reviewed in 2017:

Since 2009, I've been a participant in the Canadian books challenge. That was the year my niece was born. She and her brother are Canadian (and their parents are now naturalized citizens). I figured one thing I could do to be a good, albiet, distant aunt, was to learn about her country through their books. I do run a book blog, after all.

Now besides the four of them, my in-laws are also in the process of moving to Canada to live their full time. That won't happen this year, but it probably will by 2019. With now half of my immediate family living up there, Canadian books have become a way of life for my reading (along with following the news and social media happenings too).

This summer I realized these books were so much a part of my daily reading, that I could easily commit to reviewing a Canadian book once a week. So that's what I started to do, starting in August. I have reviews planned through the first week of March.

December

From Ant to Eagle by Alex Lyttle

Boundless by Jillian Tamaki

Macy McMillan and the Rainbow Goddess by Shari Green

November

We Are the Engineers by Angela Melick

The Lotterys Plus One by Emma Donoghue

Black Hammer Volume 1: Secret Origins by Jeff Lemire

Mrs. Saint and the Defectives by Julie Lawson Timmer

October

All Our Wrong Todays by Elan Mastai

Saints and Misfits by S.K. Ali

The Flying Troutmans by Miriam Toews

Under the Dragon's Tail by Maureen Jennings

The Fog by Kyo Maclear

September

I'm Thinking of Ending Things by Iain Reid

Carson Crosses Canada by Linda Bailey

A Safe Girl to Love by Casey Plett

August

D4VE by Ryan Ferrier

Cadillac Couches by Sophie B. Watson

Volkswagen Blues by Jacques Poulin

Roughneck by Jeff Lemire

Us Conductors by Sean Michaels

July

Triangle by Mac Barnett and Jon Klassen

Ten Things We Did by Sarah Mlynowski

Skybreaker by Kenneth Oppel

June

Storm by Amanda Sun

Showing Off by Sarah Mlynowski, Lauren Myracle, and Emily Jenkins

May

The Stone Heart by Faith Erin Hicks

This Land I Love: Waterloo County by Carl Hiebert

April

Kitchener Waterloo: A Guidebook from Memory by Robert Motum

Thrice the Brinded Cat Hath Mew'd by Alan Bradley

March

The Specific Ocean by Kyo Maclear

Except the Dying by Maureen Johnson

Clover's Luck by Kallie George

Memory and Dream by Charles de Lint

City of the Lost by Kelley Armstrong

We Found A Hat by Jon Klassen

February

None

January

Birds Art Life: A Year of Observation by Kyo Maclear