NEW YORK — Charlie Colin, bassist and founding member of the American pop-rock band Train, best known for their early-aughts hits like "Drops of Jupiter" and "Meet Virginia," died. He was 58.

Colin's sister Carolyn Stephens confirmed her brother's death to The Associated Press on Wednesday. He died after slipping and falling in the shower while house-sitting for a friend in Brussels, Belgium, celebrity website TMZ.com reported.

Colin grew up in California and Virginia and attended Berklee College of Music in Boston.

He played in a group called Apostles after college with guitarist Jimmy Stafford and singer Rob Hotchkiss. The band eventually dissolved, and Colin moved to Singapore for a year to write jingles.

Eventually, Colin, Hotchkiss and Stafford relocated to San Francisco, where Train formed in the early '90s with singer Pat Monahan. Colin brought in drummer Scott Underwood to round out the group, according to an interview with Colin and Hotchkiss in Berklee's alumni magazine.

As a founding member of Train, Colin played on the band's first three records, 1998's self-titled album, 2001's "Drops of Jupiter" and 2003's "My Private Nation." The latter two releases peaked at No. 6 on the Billboard 200 chart.

"Meet Virginia," from Train's debut album, broke the top 20 of the Billboard Hot 100, but it was their sophomore album, "Drops of Jupiter," that confirmed the band's success.

The eight-times platinum title track "Drops of Jupiter (Tell Me)" — which features the Rolling Stones ' session pianist Chuck Leavell and Leonard Cohen's string orchestrator Paul Buckmaster and was written about the death of Monahan's mother — hit No. 5 on the same chart. It also earned two Grammys, for best rock song and best instrumental arrangement accompanying vocalist(s).

Colin left Train in 2003 due to substance abuse.

"Charlie is one incredible bass player, but he was in a lot of pain, and the way he was dealing with it was very painful for everyone else around him," Monahan told NBC San Diego.

In 2015, he reunited with Hotchkiss to start a new band called Painbirds, alongside Tom Luce.

In 2017, he formed another band, the Side Deal, with Sugar Ray's Stan Frazier and the PawnShop Kings' Joel and Scott Owen.

On Wednesday, a tribute to Colin appeared on the official Facebook and X social media pages for the band Train. "When I met Charlie Colin, front left, I fell in love with him. He was the sweetest guy and what a handsome chap. Let's make a band that's the only reasonable thing to do," it reads.

"His unique bass playing a beautiful guitar work helped get folks to notice us in SF and beyond. I'll always have a warm place for him in my heart. I always tried to pull him closer but he had a vision of his own. You're a legend, Charlie. Go charm the pants off those angels."

Prior to his death, Colin documented his time in Brussels, writing "Officially my favorite city" in a March Instagram post.

Photos: Notable deaths in 2024

Andreas Brehme

Golden Richards

Richard Lewis

Nikolai Ryzhkov

Brian Mulroney

Akira Toriyama

Iris Apfel

Andy Russell

Ed Ott

Chris Mortensen

Steve Lawrence

Naomi Barber King

Paul Alexander

Thomas P. Stafford

Chris Simon

M. Emmet Walsh

Laurent de Brunhoff

Obit Angelos Baseball

Joe Lieberman

Louis Gossett Jr.

Joe Flaherty

John Sinclair

Larry Lucchino

Christopher Durang

Jerry Grote

Schappell Twins

Peter Higgs

Ralph Puckett Jr.

O.J. Simpson

Eleanor Coppola

Robert MacNeil

Faith Ringgold

Steve Sloan

Ken Holtzman

Carl Erskine

Whitey Herzog

Bob Graham

Dickey Betts

Mandisa

David Pryor

Roman Gabriel

Andrew Davis

Terry Anderson

Duane Eddy

Paul Auster

Dick Rutan

Steve Albini

Jimmy Johnson

Sean Burroughs

Roger Corman

A.J. Smith

David Sanborn

Obit Alice Munro

Dabney Coleman

Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi

Jim Otto

Ivan Boesky

Jan. A.P. Kaczmarek

Carlie Colin

Morgan Spurlock

Richard M. Sherman

Bill Walton

Albert Ruddy

Larry Allen

Janis Paige

Parnelli Jones

Chet Walker

The Rev. James Lawson Jr.

Jerry West

Ron Simons

Bob Schul

Willie Mays

Donald Sutherland

Bill Cobbs

Kinky Friedman

Martin Mull

Robert Towne

Vic Seixas

Obit Jon Landau

James Inhofe

Joe Bonsall

Shelley Duvall

Dr. Ruth Westheimer

Richard Simmons

Jacoby Jones

Shannen Doherty

James Sikking

Pat Williams

Lou Dobbs

Bob Newhart

Cheng Pei-Pei

Abdul 'Duke' Fakir

Bernice Johnson Reagon

John Mayall

Erica Ash

Obituaries Newsletter

Sign up to get the most recent local obituaries delivered to your inbox.

* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.