Being a resident dragon on Dragon’s Den means that Deborah Meaden isn’t short of a penny or two.

The millionaire’s impressive wealth means that she lives a life of luxury, splitting her time between several homes.

Deborah's main residence is her country estate in Somerset, where the businesswoman can relax after working hard in the city.

Get exclusive celebrity stories and fabulous photoshoots straight to your inbox with OK!'s daily newsletter. You can sign up at the top of the page.

When Deborah isn’t investing her money on the hit BBC TV show, she can be found at her ten-bedroom country manor, which sits on 26 acres of land.

“Somerset is in my DNA,” says Deborah, 61. “I was born there and have lived there most of my life.”

Here keen horse rider Deborah keeps her vast collection of wildlife, including her beloved ex-racehorses that she takes pride in rehoming.

“At the last count, it was seven horses, three sheep, a pig, ducks, chickens, guinea fowl, three very angry geese as well as four dogs and two cats,” Deborah previously said in an interview with Somerset Gazette.

Deborah lives in the huge property, which is a Grade II listed building in the glorious countryside, with her husband Paul.

The two-storey building was built in stages between 1565 and 1765, and the business mogul purchased the pad in 2006 shortly after selling her Weststar Holidays company for £33m.

The estate was once owned by 18th-century prime minister William Pitt the Elder.

Deborah and Paul didn’t move into their new home for 18 months while the outdoor farm buildings were dismantled and an electrical substation with its overhead wires was buried.

At the time, she said: "We have done it up in an ethical way, restoring whatever we can using traditional materials.

"That has cost us at least twice as much as it needed to. I always say: we were lucky to find our home, and it was lucky to find us.

"I do not know anybody in their right mind who would have spent the money on it we have – far more than we will ever get back."

Deborah has since said that she found calm from living back in the countryside having grown up in Essex after being born in Taunton.

The TV star is reported to have invested in around 40 businesses during her time on Dragon’s Den and is currently worth an estimated £40 million.