For over four decades Pat Sajak was synonymous with the beloved gameshow, "Wheel of Fortune." On Friday, the 77-year-old host took his final spin on the iconic show after a stunning 41-year and 8,000- episode run.

“Well, the time has come to say goodbye. I have a few thanks and acknowledgments before I go. And I want to start with all of you watching out there. It’s been an incredible privilege to be invited into millions of homes night after night, year after year, decade after decade,” Sajak said in a preview ahead of the Friday broadcast released by the show.

“And I’ve always felt that the privilege came with a responsibility to keep this daily half-hour a safe place for family fun. No social issues, no politics, nothing embarrassing I hope, just a game,” he continued.

What started as a game turned out to mean so much more.

“But gradually it became more than that: a place where kids learned their letters, where people from other countries honed their English skills, where families came together along with friends and neighbors and entire generations.”

“What an honor to have played even a small part in all that. Thank you for allowing me into your lives,” Sajak concluded.

Sajak had announced he was stepping down from the show last June, writing on X: “Well, the time has come. I’ve decided that our 41st season, which begins in September, will be my last. It’s been a wonderful ride, and I’ll have more to say in the coming months.”

In a post on X Friday morning, Sajak wistfully wrote: "Thank you all so very much."

Sajak took the helm of “Wheel of Fortune” in 1981 alongside co-host Vanna White, and anchored the show for years to come with his humor, grace and reliability. The dynamic hosting duo became regulars on American TV screens and over time, cemented themselves as pop culture icons.

On Thursday, the show released a video of White delivering an emotional tribute to her TV partner, where she said: “I can’t believe that tomorrow is our last show together. I don’t know how to put into words what these past 41 years have meant to me, but I’m going to try.”

“8,000 episodes went by like that,” she said with a snap. “When I first started I was so green. You made me so comfortable, and made me so confident, Pat. You made me who I am, you really did.”

She said they've shared beautiful moments together on and off the show.

“As much fun as we had on camera, those memories, milestone and life events we shared with our families outside the studio are my favorite,” White said. “We’ve watched our children grow up together, we’ve traveled all over the world, we’ve eaten hundreds of meals together, we’ve laughed, we’ve cried, we’ve celebrated. Gosh, what an incredible and unforgettable journey we’ve had.”

The co-host got teary-eyed as she said, “As this chapter of our lives is coming to an end, I know you’ll still be close by. You're like a brother to me and I consider you a true lifelong friend who I will always adore. I love you Pat.”

Sajak has won three Daytime Emmy Awards in the outstanding game show host category (1993, 1997, 1998), as well as a lifetime achievement prize in 2011, according to the Internet Movie Database.

Sajak said in an interview with “Wheel of Fortune” social correspondent Maggie Sajak, his daughter, that he feels a “mixed bag” of emotions departing the show.

“For me, it is a little wistful, again, as you look out and see faces you’re going to miss,” he said, “but I’m comfortable with the decision. I think the time is right for me.”

Still, the show must go on.

Ryan Seacrest will take over as host of the syndicated game show. White will stay on as co-host through the 2025-2026 season.

Sajak’s not retiring full-stop just yet. Variety reported Thursday that he’s lined up his first post-“Wheel of Fortune” gig, set to star on stage in the play “Prescription: Murder,” a Columbo mystery. He’ll reunite with his longtime friend Joe Moore, a KHON-TV Hawai’i newscaster and actor, for the production that will play at downtown Honolulu’s Hawaii Theatre in the summer of 2025.

Sajak’s final “Wheel of Fortune” episode will air at 7:30 p.m. ET.