Isabella of Portugal (1503 – 1539), Holy Roman Empress, Queen of Spain, Germany and Italy, Netherlands, Duchess of Burgundy, Princess of Portugal, wife of Emperor Charles V.

Born to King Manuel I of Portugal and Maria of Aragon, Isabella was the granddaughter of the Catholic Monarchs, Isabella I of Castile and Ferdinand II of Aragon. Throughout her life, many compared her to her grandmother for her intelligence and determination. Her personal motto was "aut Caesar aut nihil" ('either Cesar or nothing').

Charles V, of Habsburg meets Isabel of Portugal

Isabel of Portugal (1503 - 1539)

She was daughter of King Manuel I of Portugal and his second wife Maria of Aragon. She was named after her maternal grandmother Isabel I of Castile, and her aunt Isabel, Princess of Asturias, who had been her father's first wife. Isabel spent a happy childhood in the company of her parents and siblings. In the prosperous Portuguese court, Isabel was educated with great care under the tutelage of her mother. She studied the major languages of her day, including Latin, sciences, singing, dancing, and music. Isabel played several instruments with skill, and she was a good horsewoman. She was very wealthy, possessing a vast and complete library, composed of works of a spiritual nature, destined for prayer and personal enrichment, as well as more mundane works which were of the Infanta's taste, especially on cavalry.

When Queen Maria died in 1517, Isabella took care of her young siblings like a true mother for two years. Of all the children of Manuel and Maria, it was Isabel who enjoyed the highest esteem of her father. At the age of fourteen, Isabel received from King Manuel her own household, her inheritance, and was named .... of the city of Viseu and the town of Torres Vedras. Isabel had a good relationship with her cousin Leonor of Austria, third wife of her father.

Isabel was second-in-line to the throne until the birth of her brother Louis in 1505. However, as the oldest daughter of King Manuel, she was a rather attractive party. According to Maria of Aragon's will, her daughters were to either marry kings or become nuns. Isabel of Portugal was renowned for her beauty and intelligence, and reportedly was determined to marry only the greatest king of Christian Europe. That her father Manuel I proposed her marriage to Charles of Austria, Holy Roman Emperor, King of Spain, Archduke of the Habsburg dominions, Duke of Burgundy, and ruler of the Netherlands and the Spanish empire in the Americas and the Mediterranean, must have pleased her immensely, for Charles V (Carlos V) was the foremost ruler in Christendom.

In 1521 Isabel's father died and her brother succeeded to the throne as King Joao III. Carlos became engaged to his other first cousin Mary Tudor, daughter of Henry VIII of England and Catherine of Aragon, who was sixteen years younger than Carlos and still a child. Many in Portugal took the rejection of Isabel as an offence, but Isabel remained determined and hopeful that she would marry Carlos. The choice was that she would marry only Carlos or she would enter a convent. By 1525, Charles was no longer interested in an alliance with England and could wait no longer for Mary Tudor to get older, as he was determined to have legitimate children. King Joao III married Catalina of Austria, Carlos V's younger sister, and the union between Carlos V and Isabel took place by procuration. A papal dispensation was necessary because the royal couple were first cousins. The Portuguese infanta travelled to Seville, where the wedding took place on 11 March 1526. With Isabel came a huge dowry to the Spanish finances.

Painting of Charles V and Isabella of Portugal by Rubens

Although it was a political union, the marriage proved to be a love-match. Records say that during their honeymoon "when [Charles and Isabella] are together, although there are many people around, they do not notice anyone else; they talk and laugh, and nothing else distracts them". As a symbol of love for his wife, Charles ordered persian seeds planted in the garden of Mirador de Lindaraja of the Alhambra, Granada. Shortly after, the unfamiliar seeds flourished and the city was filled with red carnations. That is why Isabel of Portugal is known as the Empress of Carnation. The passionate romance that Carlos and Isabel lived, like its magical setting, was inspiration for court poets.

Carlos V personally shaped her in all matters of state and Isabel proved to be a competent consort. A woman of regal dignity, strong character, profound religiosity, though delicate, she ruled the kingdoms of Spain during Carlos' absences, between 1529–1532 and 1535–1539, and kept it in peace. Isabel attended meetings of the governing councils and consulted with the ministers. As time passed, Isabel took a more active role in the policy-making process, suggesting her own solutions rather than merely accepting the advisors' recommendations. Carlos considered her deliberations "very prudent and well thought out." During those years, she and the court traveled from city to city, moving in part to avoid exposure to epidemics. She wrote him regularly but often spent months without letters from Carlos.

Among the numerous political achievements of the Empress we can underline: sending money to her husband for his projects in Europe and his military campaign against the invasion of Süleyman the Magnificent, the diplomatic management to solve the captivity for the children of King Francis I of France in Pedraza Castle, the defense of the marriage validation for her aunt Katherine of Aragon with Henry VIII of England, preparing a report signed by the most important Spanish Universities that was sent to Pope Clement VII, and the signing of the Decree of financial assistance for families who migrate to colonize America in a honest and stable way. The Empress was interested in the education of ..... in America. She sent teachers of exemplary life.

Her good heart led her to take care of the most needy people: the poor of the kingdom, pilgrims, convents and monasteries without resources, orphaned novices without money, and the indigenous peoples of the New World. The Empress also ordered the copy and painting of liturgical books with exquisitely calligraphed and decoration. She loved poetry and was patroness of Juan Boscán, Garcilaso de la Vega, Navagero and Castiglione. Isabel of Portugal won the admiration of the court and the veneration of her Spanish subjects.

Empress Isabel was a faithful wife and devoted mother. Her great loves were her husband and their children. She raised and cared for her children and ensured their educations, especially that of her son Felipe II II of Spain, were providing them with great knowledge and wisdom and even taught them her native language of Portuguese. Isabel had seven pregnancies, but only three children survived to adulthood. She was considered one of the most beautiful women of her time. Isabella had white alabaster skin, lush blonde hair combed over her ears in braids, large hazel eyes, an oval face, a thin neck, and long fingers on her hands. She was tall, slender, had an elegant stride, was intelligent, prudent, discreet, sweet, simple, withdrawn, quiet, detached, pious, and upright in her beliefs and way of behaving. Elegant woman. richly dressed in public but more simple in private, Isabel was a fashion icon at the Spanish court.

Isabel suffered from tertian fevers, which became chronic later in her life and she also suffered several times from malaria, causing her health to be very delicate. The absences of her husband caused her great loneliness, which some historians believe further weakened her delicate health. Isabel of Portugal died at the age of 35, a few hours after of a miscarriage. A contemporary described Isabel not long before her death: "The Empress is the greatest pity in the world; she is so thin as to not resemble a person." Nonetheless, during her 13 years of marriage to Carlos V, according to historian J.H. Elliott, Isabel proved herself "the perfect Empress, a magnificently regal figure." Charles ordered her body transported to Granada for entombment near his parents. The nobleman Francis Borgia conveyed her corpse to her burial-place. It is said that, when he saw the effect of death on the beautiful Empress, he decided to "never again serve a mortal master", later becoming a Catholic saint.

Her premature death affected deeply to her husband. Charles V never remarried and he dressed in black for the rest of his life. In memory of her, he commissioned several tributes through art and music In his later years, he spent hours contemplating Titian's portrait of her. Two decades after Isabel died, her husband breathed his last. He succumbed clutching the same crucifix held by his beloved wife on her deathbed.

In 1580, more than 40 years after her death, her son Felipe II of Spain succeeded the Portuguese throne, claiming his mother's successory rights.

Blanca Suárez, the actress that experts considered close to what Isabella would be today.

Isabella`s portrait by the painter Titian, expresses her beauty, even in details.

The most perfect woman, sang poets all over Europe!

She ruled over a global empire, where the sun never set, but also over many countries in Europe, as no one ever did, neither before nor after!

Attachments

1595131685685.png