Being often overlooked by visitors for the sake of coastal places like Dubrovnik, Zagreb is the Croatian capital city and the largest city in the country. It is located at the slopes of Medvednica mountain, along the Sava river.

The name “Zagreb” is mentioned in a document dated back to 1134; however, the origin of the city name’s etymology remains unclear. There are evidence of a roman settlement called Andautonia (located in today’s Scitarjevo, in the vicinity of the city of Zagreb), estimated between the 1st and 5th century AD. The city’s official history begins in 1094, when the Hungarian king Ladislaus founded a settlement divided in two parts: Kaptol (a canonical settlement) and Gradec (a fortified settlement, right on the neighbouring hill of Kaptol). The natural border between the two parts of the city was the stream of Medvescak. In 1242 both settlement were attacked by the Tatars. In the years that followed, there were many forms of connection between Kaptol and Gradec, however they were not merged under one rule. Even under these circumstances, both parts flourished; in 1621 and, already under the Austro-Hungarian Empire ruled by the Hapsburg dynasty, Zagreb became the seat of Ban of Croatia (the local ruler), while in 1776 the royal council moved its seat from Varazdin to Zagreb.

Zagreb was unified in 1850, under Janko Kamauf, who was the first mayor of the city. During the years to come and up to World War II, Zagreb saw a significant development, both in terms of population and economy factors. During World War II, the city was the capital of the Independent State of Croatia, backed by the Axis powers and ruled by their local collaborators called Ustasha. The Partisans gained the city back during 1945; since then, and until 1991, Zagreb was the capital of the Socialist Republic of Croatia (one of the six Republics of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia). The city continued to expand as the population continued to grow, gaining importance in the Yugoslavian state; Zagreb was also the host city of the Summer Universiade in 1987.

After the declaration of independence of Croatia on June of 1991 and the escalation of war that continued until 1995, when the Erdut Treaty was signed, Zagreb was one of the Croatian cities that didn’t face major damage. Under these circumstances, the further economic and cultural growth continued immensely up to these days. Right after the war, the city attracted many visitors, especially from Italy, Austria and Germany – while, in the last few years, tourists from the Far East (ie. Chinese, Japanese and South Korea) tend to choose to visit Zagreb. Having a rich history and many beautiful buildings, some of the main landmarks of the city is the Zagreb Cathedral (located in Kaptol), the St Mark’s square (Gradec) and the Upper Town (Gornji Grad). The museum lovers will not be disappointed; the Archaeological Museum with many artifacts from different eras and civilizations, while the Mimara Museum displays an impressive collection of works from famous artists, such as Rubens, Velasquez and Goya. For the visitors who wish to get an authentic taste of the local everyday life, a visit to the Dolac Market is a must; it’s the spot where producers all over Croatia meet and sell their fresh products!