In Nikšić, the three-volume book "Genealogy of the Koprivica Brotherhood" was presented, on which the author Radojko Koprivica, M.Sc., worked for four decades.

The first book is called "Genealogy (from the roots to the paths of descendants)", the second "Anthropogeographic studies (metanastastic movements)" and the third "Chrestomatiya (historical chronology)".

Bishop Joanikije of Budiman-Nikšić said that many important families in our nation had a legend at the beginning of their history.

"Koprivice may have the most beautiful legend about its origin, which links it to Miloš Obilić, to Jela, daughter of Lazareva, and to the Battle of Kosovo. It may be that this legend cannot be confirmed historically, but it did not happen by chance, nor did it happen by chance" , said Joanikije.

According to that legend, Jela, who was carrying the child of Miloš Obilić, while fleeing Kosovo from the Turks, passed through Banjane and gave birth there. The son she gave birth to was handed over to a shepherdess whom she met and who brought the child into her family. They raised him, married him, gave him an estate and the surname Koprivica.

"This book was written with soul, with enormous energy and love, with an exceptional passion that is rare. If this task had been entrusted to an institution 30-40 years ago, I doubt that such an important work would have been created. This book is significant because in it you can read many important and beautiful things that you cannot find in history, because what is said by the hearth, what is sung with the fiddle, what was passed down from generation to generation is wealth. He gave this book its soul and that's why it is interesting, important", said Joanikije.

Prof. Dr. Vukašin Baćović said that the book is a kind of endowment of Koprivica, and that the author, who wrote the book inspired and faithfully, showed how to preserve the birthstone.

The epic poet and fiddler Dragurin Perović said that the author of the genealogy "redeemed the famous names and legends that the brotherhood of Koprivica has lost over time", and with the book he entwined "an eternal wreath and reborn the ancestors of his brotherhood and left them for the permanent and faithful preservation of the family and tribe". .

Prof. Dr. Budimir Aleksić said that the genealogy represents the research endeavor of Radojko Koprivica, who put a lot of work and effort into it.

"Monographs of brotherhoods have a wider significance, because apart from referring to the brotherhood itself, they are a significant contribution to our history, ethnography and ethnology, because the history of our people can be reconstructed through the history of brotherhoods, as is the case with this book, for which one of the reviewers is and said that it is not only the genealogy of the brotherhood of Koprivica, but that it is practically the history of the people to which the brotherhood belongs," said Aleksić.

Marinko Koprivica, who spoke on behalf of the brotherhood, said that the author could not come because he had health problems and had just left the hospital. He conveyed his greetings and thanked everyone who helped the genealogy see the light of day.

The epic poet Božo Đuranović, the poet and fiddler Dragutin Perović, the fiddler Zdravko Knežević and the male singing groups "Banjani" and "Piva" took part in the program. The program was led by Marko Kovačević, and passages from the book were read by Spasoje Tomić.

Gallery