Join us at the Rio Theatre on Tuesday, August 13 as we tip our hat and raise a glass to cinematic icon Alfred Hitchcock – on his birthday! – with the new, 65th Anniversary restoration of one of his all-time greatest thrillers, NORTH BY NORTHWEST.

At one point (jokingly) titled “The Man in Lincoln’s Nose”, the film represents something of a late-period departure for a filmmaker known primarily for horror; it’s a tightly-wound, intensely thrilling, and often witty take on the cinematic trope of mistaken identity that is widely regarded as one of his best films.

Cary Grant stars as Madison Avenue advertising man Roger Thornhill, who finds himself thrust into the world of spies when he is mistaken for a man by the name of George Kaplan. When foreign spy Philip Vandamm and his henchman Leonard try to eliminate him, Thornhill tries to make sense of the case, and is framed for murder instead. On the run from the police, he manages to board a train bound for Chicago, where he meets a beautiful blond (a memorable Eva Marie Saint) who helps him evade the authorities. His world is turned upside down yet again when he learns that even she isn’t the innocent bystander he thought she was. Not all is as it seems however, leading to a dramatic climax at the top of Mt. Rushmore.

Beyond what one would expect from the man famously dubbed, “The Master of Suspense,” NORTH BY NORTHWEST is notable for being one of the director’s only action films, and features several visually iconic sequences that have since become woven into the fabric of the genre. Also starring James Mason, Martin Landau.

“Certifiable ‘classic’ territory, Hitchcock’s glossiest entertainment is the closest the trickster ever came to an action movie.” (Empire Magazine)

Tuesday, August 13

Doors 5:45 pm | Movie 6:15 pm *Start time subject to change. Please arrive on time.

Advance tickets HERE

Saturday, August 17

Doors 3:15 pm | Movie 3:45 pm *Start time subject to change. Please arrive on time.

Advance tickets HERE

NORTH BY NORTHWEST (Alfred Hitchcock, 1959 / 136 mins / PG) A hapless New York advertising executive is mistaken for a government agent by a group of foreign spies, and is pursued across the country while he looks for a way to survive.

*Minors OK. Must be 19+ w/ID for bar service.

*Rio Theatre Groupons and passes OK for any single film only. Please redeem at the door.

*We recommend purchasing your tickets in advance at www.riotheatretickets.ca. If a screening or live event is not sold out, the remaining tickets will be available for in-person purchase at the Rio Theatre’s Box Office prior to showtime (subject to availability).

*Our box office is typically open 30 minutes before showtime. All seating is General Admission; please arrive 20-30 minutes prior to showtime to ensure great seats, and time for treats at concession.

*If you are looking to redeem either a Rio Theatre gift certificate or Groupon to any regular Rio Theatre screening: You can either email us in advance <[email protected]> and give us a “heads up,” or do it at the box office prior to showtime.