Synopsis

At present, three platforms are operational in it which also acts as the terminal station for few trains on the Delhi Metro's Blue Line (Line 3/4).

NEW DELHI: The launch of the extension to Najafgarh will convert Dwarka Metro station into a major interchange hub, with the added distinction of it being the only station to have five elevated platforms at the same level.

At present, three platforms are operational in it which also acts as the terminal station for few trains on the Delhi Metro's Blue Line (Line 3/4) as the corridor stretches till Dwarka Sector 21.

"While presently, three platforms are operational, two more platforms will come up parallely to cater to the extension to Najafgarh via the upcoming Nangli station," a metro spokesperson said.

Work on the the branch line till Najafgarh has been undertaken under the Phase-III construction and a sum of Rs 1,070 crore has been sanctioned for the same, according to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation.

Unlike the broad-gauge tracks of Blue Line's operational stretch, the 4.4-km long extension corridor will have standard gauge tracks also making Dwarka one of the few stations in the entire network to have a multi-gauge arrangement.

Presently, Central Secretariat and Mandi House are the only stations to have multi-gauge arrangements, the spokesperson said.

According to officials, the platforms of the upcoming station will be connected to the existing ones through the paid area on the concourse.

"There will be interconnectivity between the present station and the new station through the paid area as commuters will be able to commute from one platform to another through the concourse area which will be on the ground floor," the spokesperson said.

As per official estimates, the station, that sees a footfall of around 30 thousand commuters everyday, will cater to approximately 50 thousand more commuters after the launch of the new section.

The crisscrossing of lines in Phase-III with the existing lines at many places will lead to emergence of around 22 interchange stations, thus, shortening the distance between different parts of the city.

At present, there are nine interchange stations - Rajiv Chowk, Kashmere Gate, Central Secretariat, Inderlok, Ashok Park Main, Yamuna Bank, Dwarka Sec 21, New Delhi and Kirti Nagar.

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News, Budget 2024 Events and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News, Budget 2024 Events and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless

After a long stretch of slump, what’ll set the course for the hero of 100 cc bikes

The many gaps in conflict of interest allegations against Sebi chief, other Indian regulators

Four ingredients that helped Mahindra Thar leave Maruti Jimny and Jeep Wrangler behind

10 financial stocks that are trending in anticipation of rate cuts

Indian investors are diverging from those in advanced markets. Why?

Will your texts be delivered on September 1?

1

2

3