I have Long Day's Flight which is an excellent compilation. It contains singles and tracks from the first two albums. I love every song. I don't think you can go wrong with anything from 1966-1967.

A few favorites are:

Get Me To The World On Time

I Happen To Love You

You Never Had It Better

Little Olive

Ain't It Hard

If I don't stop I will just keep naming every song!

I like it too. Of course it’s the Electric Prunes in name only.

I always wanted there to be a show that started with The Strawberry Alarm Clock, followed by the Prunes, followed by Moby Grape, and then the Chocolate Watchband could finish. They could jam as Electric Chocolate Grape Alarm! The tastiest bill ever.

I tried to get into the later experimental stuff as I do like West Coast Pop Art Experimental Band and The United States Of America, but it's just one of those things like a lot of stuff by The Nice... even though people I respect rave about it I just don't connect to it. Maybe some other time I will?

I'm surprised that you don't like the West Coast Pop Art Experimental Band. I have an original USA pressing in mono of the band's second album. I paid twenty-five cents for it and it sounds excellent and full of life. That was the first album of theirs that I heard seriously on ear phones. I loved it. I listened to the third album and it didn't do anything for me. I did like the fourth album that had a Byrds feeling to it. That first album of West Coast...is great too but I don't have that one. I would like that RSD may reissue that one last album of theirs with the forlorn blonde girl on the cover. That's a good album too I think. I agree with you about Nazz--a couple of good songs, sure. I'd much rather hear Todd's earlier solo records.

I love the Electric Prunes. All albums under the Electric Prunes name IMO have something to offer despite whatever the lineup was. The first two albums and singles are my fave period followed by the two religious albums and the fifth and final album with no original members. I have all the Electric Prunes CD albums and comps. plus the Stockholm live album. I have a budget 70s German LP reissue of Mass In F Minor. I also have the David Axelrod/Electric Prunes compilation "Electric Prunes and Pride" which is the two religious albums plus some alternate and instrumental versions of the songs from those two albums. Also included is another album by David Axelrod called Pride. I'm kind of lukewarm about that album but the rest is great. I'll have to give Pride another listen.

Some previously unreleased material first appeared on the Lost Dreams compilation. I wonder if there is more material in the vault like alternate versions and more unreleased material? I would like to see a reissue label like Big Beat or similar to get any other material out if it exists.

I had this for years and picked up the original albums much later. Tbh everything you really need is on this comp. It really is killer.

What a great band they were. They stand head and shoulders above their garage punk peers.

One day in the summer of 1968 I was walking home from somewhere (maybe the library) and I passed the house of a classmate from the previous year. He was just finishing up mowing the lawn, but he invited me in, and we sat in his basement for a while listening to records. He pulled out an Electric Prunes LP and played I Had Too Much to Dream Last Night, which instantly floored me. I had never heard it on the radio when it was released. A few years later I found the LP in the delete bins at Sam the Record Man ...

I still love that song! And I recommend it to anyone who wants to hear some '60s tracks they haven't heard before.

I agree that "Underground" is the better album overall but I'm not sure that the first doesn't have higher peaks.

Ken Williams was doing some cool things on the guitar in '66-'68 and I wish he'd gone on to something else musically.

I was lucky enough to see them at Cavestomp in 2001 and they sounded almost identical to their younger selves. I got "Underground" signed by the three originals present.

Finally, even after seeing it countless times, it was only fairly recently that I learned that bassist Mark Tulin was in the band in "The Poseidon Adventure".

I'll assume some fans don't really care for the two old timer tracks "The King Is In The Counting House" and "Toonerville Trolley" that are on the first album. I like them but they may off put some listeners due to their kind of childlike nature and cheesiness.

Never knew Tulin was in TPA band!

They were very good at Cavestomp in 2001... did you see the Creation there as well? That was transcendental!