Academy at the Lakes

The school’s ethic of opportunity and “You Matter Here” philosophy empower our students to become well-rounded individuals who have the confidence and the knowledge to change the world. With talented, dedicated, and caring teachers leading the way, Academy enjoys a 100% 4-year college placement rate.

Academy of the Holy Names

The Academy of the Holy Names is a Catholic, coeducational elementary school and college preparatory high school for young women, sponsored by the Sisters of the Holy Names of Jesus and Mary. Since 1881, the Academy has empowered students to be authentic individuals who engage in independent thought, are inspired by creativity, and lead culturally aware, spiritually rich lives. The Academy’s innovative approach to curriculum integrates technology, encourages artistic expression and actively engages students in exploration and inquiry.

Adum PreK-8 Magnet School

NEW! Kenneth E. Adum K-8 Magnet School Opening in August 2024. This beautiful, state-of-the-art campus will be a full magnet school home to 1,620 students. The first year it will host students K – grade 7, and then will expand to include 8th grade in 2025. Families can apply during the school choice application windows….

Alegria Montessori School

Alegria Montessori School is an authentic Montessori program that creates a rich learning environment and supports individual development. We are also a bilingual program, with students receiving Spanish instruction throughout the week from native Spanish speakers. We offer a true Montessori education through middle school. Come discover the joy of Montessori.

Bayshore Christian School

Bayshore Christian School is a college preparatory, accredited, non-denominational Christian school serving students 2 years old through 12th grade. Founded in 1971, Bayshore Christian School is located on 10 acres in residential South Tampa. BCS provides athletics and fine arts opportunities in addition to a rigorous and challenging academic curriculum.

Bell Creek Academy

A tuition-free public charter school proudly serving grades 6-12, Bell Creek provides a well-rounded college preparatory education. The challenging and rigorous curriculum includes a special concentration on math and science, a technology-rich atmosphere and a focus on character development. We are an “A” rated Florida School of Excellence offering the Cambridge program for Advanced Studies and an award-winning Athletic Program and Cognia accredited.

Berkeley Preparatory School

Ranked as one of the BEST private schools in Florida (NICHE), Berkeley Preparatory School presents a safe, nurturing environment featuring inspiring teaching, engaged parents and alumni, and outstanding resources, including incomparable facilities on a beautiful campus. We offer an exceedingly broad curricular and extracurricular program enjoyed by an exceptional and diverse community of learners following personalized paths, who relish a supportive culture, the school’s Episcopal identity, its ongoing commitment to continual self-improvement, and a deeply authentic dedication to making a positive difference in the world. We develop and expect strong character, promote innovation and growth, and desire excellence in all that we do. Simply put, the educational journey at Berkeley is truly extraordinary.

Building Construction Academy at Bowers/Whitley

COMING 2023-2024 SCHOOL YEAR! The Bowers/Whitley Career Acceleration Academy will be transformed into our new Building Construction Academy for high school students. Students can participate in A/C Refrigeration, Heating Technology (HVAC), Plumbing, and Welding programs. For more details and the latest updates, please visit hillsboroughschools.org/buildingtampastomorrow.

Calvary Christian High School

Calvary offers an advanced college preparatory education in an environment where students are taught a Christian worldview with the Word of God being integrated into each subject. Calvary also offers many extra-curricular activities for your child including athletics, fine arts, SGA, clubs, leadership opportunities and more! Come for a visit today!

Cambridge Christian School

See why Cambridge Christian is the #1 rated Christian school in Tampa! Since 1964 we have equipped students with a college preparatory education taught from a biblical worldview. A partnership with CCS provides students with a strong foundation for life and college from a nationally accredited school committed to educating the whole child.

Canterbury School of Florida

Founded in 1968, Canterbury School of Florida is a college preparatory, independent, PK3-Grade 12 day school on two St. Petersburg, Florida campuses. In the Episcopal tradition, Canterbury emphasizes academics, character education, community, and spirituality. We are dedicated to student success, providing unique learning opportunities through exploration, conversation, and connection. Hough Campus (PK3-Grade 4): 1200 Snell…

Carrollwood Day School

Carrollwood Day School is a world class co-ed IB school in Tampa for college bound students age 2 through 12th grade celebrating our 40th anniversary this year. Our mission is to create entrepreneurial thinkers for a global society. We provide strong, character-based education emphasizing problem-solving skills and philanthropic understanding. Most importantly, CDS fosters the development of the entire student not only in academics, but also ethically, emotionally and through social experience.

Center Academy

Founded in 1968 and Cognia accredited, Center Academy provides a small, safe setting to help students to focus, organize and learn. We work with students in grades 4-12 with ADHD and learning differences and accept FES, Step Up and Tax Credit Scholarships. Dual enrollment and summer programs are available.

Channelside Academy of Math & Science

Students at this tuition-free, public charter school receive a well-rounded college preparatory education. The challenging and rigorous curriculum includes a special concentration on math and science, a technology-rich atmosphere and a focus on character development preparing students for their secondary education and beyond. Offerings at Channelside include the Cambridge program for Advanced Studies, Edvantage before and after school program, Tampa Bay’s Grasses in Classes Program and Cognia accreditation.

Christ the King Catholic

Christ the King Catholic School inspires each child to grow in the love of Christ, the joy of knowledge and the spirit of service. Our outstanding faculty, joyful campus, and enriching academics provide PreK–8th grade students with a strong foundation to excel at the area’s leading high schools and beyond. Enrollment: 525 Class-Size: 24 average…

Community Montessori School

Community Montessori School provides a prepared environment that responds to the developmental needs of the child and cultivates the unique potential of each individual by adhering to Montessori’s principles. CMS is a warm, secure community with a high expectation for the quality of thought, work, and mastery of content and skill.

Corbett Preparatory School of IDS

Founded ​54 years ago, Corbett Prep offers the International Baccalaureate curriculum for all students. Teachers use research-based strategies to create hands-on learning experiences. Visual and performing arts, team sports, and social-emotional learning curriculum align to develop confident, creative, innovative thinkers with character ready to contribute to the world in a meaningful, positive way.

Countryside Christian Academy

Countryside Christian Academy’s mission is to provide excellence in Christian education while instilling Biblical principles in students’ lives that they might impact their society for Christ. Our program is fully accredited and well-balanced, encouraging the development of the whole child: spirit, soul, (mind) and body.

Dorothy C. York Innovation Academy

York Innovation Academy will open this year as a focused Project Lead the Way Robotics and Engineering Magnet School as it pursues adding a world-renown International Studies program. Located in Apollo Beach, the York Admirals will participate in hands-on, project-based learning, focusing on STEM, arts, and international studies. The Admirals will also work collaboratively in innovative labs full of robotics and have robust one-to-one technology available to them to explore their interests in a 21st-century setting. York Innovation Academy will provide families with a well-rounded educational experience that prepares students for high school and provides an understanding of the world and their place in it.

Dowdell Middle Magnet – Environmental Studies

We bridge passion for the environment with real world learning. Students can take unique environmental and animal science electives. Students learn outdoors with our salt marsh grass nursery and land lab and experience our hydroponics and aquaponics labs. Our partnerships with the Florida Aquarium and surrounding recycling companies helps strengthen our mission to educate students to understand the environment around them and how to help it.

Dr. Kiran C. Patel Elementary School

Dr. Kiran C. Patel Elementary School offers a comprehensive educational program blending rigorous academics, Project Based Learning, and the Cambridge Primary Curriculum. Focused on whole child development, the school prioritizes a safe, supportive learning environment promoting social, emotional, and leadership skills. The intentional design includes spacious classrooms, fostering flexibility, collaboration, and access to technology, while…

Dunbar Elementary Magnet – Medical Science

Dunbar is known around the state of Florida and nationally for its Medical Magnet Program. We are creating tomorrow’s doctors and nurses exploring the human body systems and healthy habits with partners like Brain Expansions, Scholastic Training, St. Joseph’s Children’s Hospital, USF Health, Girls Inc., and more! Dunbar’s offerings to students will grow greatly this year with the addition of a Third Grade Accelerated Math Academy for students who have displayed exceptional performance on their math assessments. This first-of-its-kind program will allow students to accelerate through several years of Math by the end of their 5th-grade year. Upon entering middle school, these students will be prepared to take high school-level Math courses. Dunbar has a prescription for success, providing an opportunity for young scholars to explore the STEM field through their hands-on curriculum and interactive House Program.

Essrig Elementary Montessori Academy

The new Montessori Academy at Essrig Elementary School will open as the first-ever Montessori school in the history of our district. Families of 3-year-old, 4-year-old, and Kindergarten-aged students will be welcome to apply each year to participate in this one-of-its-kind approach to self-directed and self-paced learning. The program will foster rigorous, self-motivated growth for children in all areas of their development to nurture each child’s natural desire for knowledge, understanding, and respect.

Ferrell Girls Preparatory Academy – Cambridge International School

As a Cambridge International Magnet School and the only girls-only school in the district, we are dedicated to developing confident, dynamic, educated young women. Our technology-rich, interactive learning campus—including our 1:1 technology program—infuses 21st century tech skills into every student’s learning. Mentoring opportunities and community engagement create well-rounded learners.

Franklin Boys Preparatory Academy – Cambridge International Magnet School

As a Cambridge International Magnet School and the only boys-only school in the district, we are molding young men of distinction who will achieve greatness. We promote academic achievement, professionalism and self-confidence. Our young men prepare for college in a technology-rich environment with a robotics makerspace and Smart Boards and iPads available for every student. Free after-school Enrichment Academies include debate, golf and Model UN.

Greco Middle Magnet – International Baccalaureate Candidate

Our school-wide IB candidate program, guided by International Baccalaureate World School principles, works with community partners and the city of Temple Terrace to create a unique IB experience every day. Our school has exceptional programs on campus that allow students to explore their passion, all under the IB program umbrella.

Hillel Academy

Hillel Academy, a Cambridge International School, cultivates a culture of kindness, empowering a diverse student body to unlock their full potential and embrace their unique identities through a robust academic curriculum, dynamic Jewish life, and learning experiences. Enrollment: 222 Class Size: 18 Grades: Age 1 – grade 10 Tuition: $5,300 – $20,450 Amenities: Financial Aid,…

Hillsborough Academy of Math & Science

A tuition-free public charter school serving Kindergarten to 8th Grade. Challenging and hand-on curriculum includes a special concentration on math and science, a technology-rich atmosphere, and a focus on character development. We are “A” rated offering the Cambridge program for Advanced Studies, extracurricular activities, clubs, and Edventure, before & after school program

Hillsborough Virtual K-12

Hillsborough Virtual K-12 offers personalized learning in a structured, yet flexible environment. It is a school choice option in which students learn in a digital space using a web-based curriculum with highly-qualified teachers from Hillsborough County. Students can take part in athletics and extracurricular activities at their zoned school.

Holy Trinity Lutheran School

Holy Trinity Lutheran School is a co-educational school located in the heart of South Tampa. Founded in 1958, HTLS offers an enriching and rewarding academic education in a loving and safe Christian environment. Our mission is to provide Christ-centered academic excellence and care for the whole child that equips them for lifelong learning and service.

Land O’ Lakes Christian School

A Christ-honoring atmosphere for preschool through high school, LOLCS trains students to develop and grow spiritually, intellectually, socially and physically. We offer a fully accredited, balanced program that emphasizes spiritual life, challenging academics for college preparation, and opportunities for students to explore their interests and talents in fine arts and athletics.

Lincoln Elementary Magnet – International Baccalaureate

At Lincoln we prepare students to meet the challenges of world citizenship with confidence, imagination and integrity. Students can study global cultures and develop an open and curious mind. Students engage in music and arts programs, Odyssey of the Mind, Robotics Team, inquiry-based learning centers, student action/service learning, world languages and more.

Lockhart Elementary Magnet – Creative Science Centre

At Lockhart, students learn using the latest technology, such as STEM tools, LEGO robotics and flight simulators. The national Project Lead the Way program engages students in hands-on activities, projects and problems that are reflective of real-world challenges. Students engage with robotics experiences, engineering challenges, outdoor learning and wildlife habitats.

Lomax Elementary Magnet – Gifted Talented Academy

At Lomax students are active thinking and learning citizens, engaging their minds with Math Olympiad, TiViTz, chess, Future Problem Solvers and Odyssey of the Mind. We embrace the arts with World Drumming, violin and Little Kids Rock; build with LEGO and VEX Robotics; and grow through Student Ambassadors and National Honor Society.

MacFarlane Park Elementary Magnet – International Baccalaureate

As the #1 Elementary Magnet School in America in 2020, we offer students a unique and unbelievable experience. We prepare students to meet the challenges of world citizenship with confidence, imagination and integrity. Students study global cultures, engage in music and arts programs, Odyssey of the Mind, Robotics Team, inquiry-based learning centers, student action/service learning, world languages and more.

Marshall Middle Magnet – International Baccalaureate Candidate

Marshall IB students are guided by the International Baccalaureate program. The school is an IB Candidate School with authorization on the close horizon. Students can engage in STEM, robotics, culinary arts, Math League and AVID college readiness. Optional Scholar Quest high school credit courses offer additional rigor.

Medical Academy at D.W. Waters

COMING 2023-2024 SCHOOL YEAR! The D.W. Waters Career Acceleration Academy will undergo an exciting transformation over the next year. It is scheduled to become our high school Medical Academy. Some programs slated to be offered include Medical Laboratory Assisting, Electrocardiograph Technician, and Emergency Medical Responder. For more details and the latest updates, please visit hillsboroughschools.org/buildingtampastomorrow.

Mother Teresa of Calcutta Catholic School

Mother Teresa of Calcutta Catholic School is a private elementary in Lutz, Florida serving Kindergarten through 8th grade. Our mission is to develop young people who strive for academic excellence, respect the dignity of each individual and foster service to others. We are committed to continuing our tradition of academic excellence by providing a rigorous curriculum in a nurturing Christ-centered environment. Guided by the example of Jesus and our patroness, Mother Teresa, we strive to develop a dedication of service to others and a devotion to the Catholic faith. We seek to instill self-discipline and promote the growth of the whole child-body, mind, and soul. By developing critical thinking and problem solving skills, we prepare our students for life-long learning.

Muller Elementary Magnet – Visual, Performing, Communication Arts and Environmental Studies

The only elementary magnet school to host TWO programs–arts and environmental science — Muller Magnet meets the needs of students of all interests! Daily, students experience strings, dance, music and art classes. They engage in the orchestra and rock band, performance groups and our annual musical. Students can explore the outdoor classroom, global gardens and take part in the National Honor Society and student government.

Orange Grove Middle Magnet

Be a shining star at Orange Grove, where high academic achievement meets creativity. Our historic campus includes two professional dance studios, video production, visual arts with a MAC lab and exceptional music and technical theater suites. We help our students prepare for their next step if they choose to apply to Blake High School or to hone their skills so they can “wow” their families. Our kids get a well-rounded education.

Pinellas Preparatory Academy, Inc.

Pinellas Preparatory Academy is a high performing, “A” rated, tuition free K-8 public charter school. Besides our strong academics, you will find a culture of strong character and community. The school focuses on developing the talents of each student, while emphasizing high academic standards.

Progress Village Middle Magnet – Visual, Performing and Communication Arts

We are proud to offer the largest dance and culinary arts programs in Hillsborough County. We’re routinely recognized as a Magnet School of America national award winner and show our craft to organizations and events around the district. Students can try exciting electives such as Costume and Fashion Design, orchestra, journalism and more. The spotlight shines on students at Progress Village.

Rampello K-8 Magnet – Cultural Arts and Humanities

Join us at Rampello K-8 Magnet for experiential learning with walking field trips through downtown Tampa, and a differentiated instruction focus to meet the needs of all learners. We have strong community partnerships and school-wide AVID instructional strategies. Middle school electives include: Band/Jazz/Orchestra/Steel Drums, Art 2-D and 3-D, Spanish and Creative Writing.

Riverhills Elementary Magnet – International Baccalaureate

Located on the Hillsborough River, with all the science and experimental potential that implies, Riverhills Elementary prepares students to meet the challenges of world citizenship with confidence, imagination and integrity. Students can study global cultures and develop an open and curious mind. Students engage in music and arts programs, Odyssey of the Mind, Robotics Team, Inquiry-based learning centers, student action/service learning, world languages and more.

Riverview Academy of Math & Science

The tuition-free, public charter school proudly serves students from kindergarten through middle school with a well-rounded college preparatory education. The rigorous curriculum includes a special concentration on math and science, a technology-rich atmosphere, and a focus on character development. Offerings include the Cambridge program for Advanced Studies, Edvantage before and after school program, Tampa Bay’s Grasses in Classes Program and Cognia accreditation.

Rodgers Middle Magnet – Cambridge Candidate

Rodgers, an authorized Cambridge International Magnet School, offers learning guided by the rigorous, world renowned Cambridge Pathways philosophy. Located in Riverview’s Bell Creek Nature Preserve, we embrace and empower the whole student. Several National Board-Certified Teachers highlight our exceptional team of educators. Ask us about our Cambridge Honors Institute if you choose to apply!

Roland Park K-8 Magnet – International Baccalaureate

At Roland Park we inspire young inquiring minds to become compassionate, lifelong learners and internationally-minded people with respect for various cultures and a desire to serve others. Students can experience inquiry-based learning centers, transdisciplinary units of study, an outdoor classroom with an international garden, a strings program and world languages.

Shore Elementary Magnet – Visual, Performing and Communication Arts

Shore Elementary is an award-winning Magnet School of the Arts located in historic Ybor City. Students learn through arts and science integration and can take part in the Annual Arts Festival and school musical. Students expand their horizons through visual art, dance, strings, music, drama, STEAM Engineering and robotics programs. Our partnership with the Straz Performing Arts Center brings Broadway to our students–something you will find at no other school!

Shorecrest Preparatory School

Founded in 1923, Shorecrest is a coed, nonsectarian, PK3-12 independent school in St. Petersburg, FL. In a safe, student-centered environment, Shorecrest educates a diverse community of students to become lifelong learners in the pursuit of personal and academic excellence, physical well-being, creative achievement and the development of a commitment to social responsibility.

Simmons Career Acceleration Academy High School

Simmons Career Acceleration Academy High School in Plant City serves students 9-12, providing a school culture focused on academic achievement, personal growth, and preparing students for a successful future after high school. Students experience a hybrid learning approach, career preparation through industry certifications, and a streamlined path to graduation. Students can take part in athletics and extracurricular activities at their zoned school.

Sligh Middle Magnet – Human Health and Performance, Medical Administration and Sciences

Join a culture of future health professionals whose uniforms are doctors’ scrubs four days a week. At Sligh Middle Magnet we prepare students for one of the fastest growing career fields in the country. Electives engage all students with Career and Technical Education, Family and Consumer Science and our AVID college readiness program.

South County Career Acceleration Academy High School

South County Career Center offers an accelerated program to any high school student to either earn previously lost credits or to accelerate in current courses using Edgenuity. We currently offer Automotive program as well as Agriculture as electives.

St. Cecelia Interparochial Catholic School

St. Cecelia Interparochial Catholic School (SCS) is a two-time recipient of the prestigious Blue Ribbon Award, having been recognized in both 2020 and 2010. Blue Ribbon is the highest award that a school can receive for academic excellence by the Department of Education. SCS is also Pinellas county’s only private school to offer the International Baccalaureate to students in grades PreK-3 through 8th grade. Through the International Baccalaureate Programme, we provide tools, develop character and teach skills that prepare our students to thrive in high school, college and beyond. We remain steadfast in our commitment to our students’ educational and personal success and to the betterment of our local and global communities.

St. John’s Episcopal Parish Day School

Located in the heart of Tampa, St. John’s Episcopal School delivers an unparalleled, values-driven, progressive education for children in pre-kindergarten through eighth grade. Hard work, faith, respect, honesty and a commitment to excellence allow our graduates to thrive in high school, college and beyond.

St. Lawrence Catholic School

St. Lawrence is a Parish school filled with rich traditions of our Catholic faith. The graduates are well prepared spiritually and academically for the next phase of their journey, high school. We pride ourselves in our motto, “La Familia.” All are welcome here at St. Lawrence Catholic School.

St. Peter Claver Catholic School

St. Peter Claver Catholic School, Tampa’s downtown private Catholic school serving students age 3 through 8th grade, provides its students with a rigorous curriculum that is a balance of academics, religion, and enrichment subjects—such as music, art, physical education and STREAM. We take pride in preserving the legacy of our beautiful school and community and…

Stewart Middle Magnet – NASA Explorer School

Be part of one of the only nationally recognized NASA Explorer Schools in the country! Through our Project Lead the Way curriculum, students choose from electives like aerospace and engineering. Stewart partners with NASA, NOAA and the U.S. Air Force for real-world learning. Our location on the Hillsborough River and next to Blake and near Dunbar Magnet add to the opportunities our students enjoy every day!

Tampa Catholic High School

Located in the heart of Tampa, along the Hillsborough River, Tampa Catholic High School is dedicated to providing our students academic excellence in a Catholic, Christ-centered environment. com/214673027 Located along the Hillsborough River in the heart of beautiful Tampa, Florida, Tampa Catholic High School (TCHS) nurtures academic, spiritual and personal growth, promotes life-long learning, and a commitment to service and justice.

Tampa Heights Elementary Magnet – Global Leadership Academy

At Tampa Heights Elementary Magnet, our students become innovative thinkers who achieve academically and socially through our seven Wonders—leadership, environment, economics, wellness, innovation, communication and culture. Students can participate in Model United Nations and Odyssey of the Mind, learn world languages and leadership, and experience cultural clusters such as yoga, cooking, African art and LEGO makerspace.

Tampa Prep (Tampa Preparatory School)

At Tampa Prep, we don’t limit our thinking. We keep moving forward even if we can’t see over the horizon just yet. We stay open to new ideas and at the ready for new challenges. We are Florida’s Most Innovative School. We are Tampa Prep, a co-ed, independent school for grades 6 – 12 in downtown Tampa. We are here to inspire the next great explorers, innovators and creators.

The Waldorf School of Tampa Bay

The Waldorf School of Tampa Bay is a 24-year old early childhood and elementary school with a 100+ year old European curriculum rooted in child development. Our preschool and kindergarten is play-based with an emphasis on developing the physical body, and our grades classes teach art, music, movement and practical skills concurrently with robust academics. All our children spend between 2 to 6 hours outdoors, every day.

Valrico Lake Advantage Academy

A tuition-free, public charter school proudly serving students in kindergarten through fifth Grade, Valrico Lake Advantage Academy provides a well-rounded elementary foundation through a challenging curriculum with a focus on teaching math and science in proven and innovative instructional methods preparing students for their secondary education and beyond. We are an “A” rated Florida School of Excellence offering the Cambridge program for Advanced Studies. Cognia accredited.

Victory Charter School Tampa K-12

*Read their feature in our Program Profiles! Tampa K-5: victorychartertampa.org | Instagram | Facebook Tampa 6-12: victorychartertampa612.org | Instagram | Facebook Victory Charter School Tampa K-12 is proud to announce it’s Candidacy for the IB PYP and MYP Programs! As a school, we are committed to providing students with the highest quality educational program possible in…

Walker Middle Magnet – International Baccalaureate

We develop creative and confident learners. Communication, reflection and whole-child learning energize Walker Middle Magnet, Odessa’s IB World School. As a Magnet School of Distinction, students are exposed to a rigorous curriculum. High-impact teachers and our Florida Power School Library highlight our exceptional, highly-rated team of educators.

Westlake Christian School

Westlake Christian School, a National Blue Ribbon School, is accredited by the Florida Council of Independent Schools and the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools/Cognia. Westlake’s mission is to help students develop in their faith, academics, fine arts and athletics. Westlake serves approximately 475 students in Kindergarten through eighth grade from Northern Pinellas County, Southern Pasco County, Trinity, Westchase and surrounding communities.

Westminster Academy

At Westminster Academy, we provide a Christ-centered, academically excellent classical education rooted in the Great Books and study of language. We develop young scholars who are deeply rooted in the fundamentals of knowledge passed down over generations and who are self-motivated, intellectually curious, and compassionate toward their fellow man. Enrollment: 62 Class-Size: 7:1 Grades: PreK-grade…

Williams Middle Magnet – International Baccalaureate

At Williams Middle Magnet we are a top-ranked IB World School, earning an A-grade for nearly 20 years! We create global learners focused on intercultural awareness and communication. Scholar Quest high school credit offerings challenge students in French, algebra and emerging technology in business. Connect through clubs including LEGO Robotics, Model UN, Future Business Leaders of America and our award-winning Chess Club.