America should be truly bewildered that a large number of Georgians and Americans have bought into the lies of Donald Trump, a candidate for the highest office in the land, the President of the United States. Trump has fundraised off the lies and raised millions of dollars with a portion of the proceeds lining his own pockets and to pay his mounting legal fees.

The “Big Lie” is the one he told immediately after the 2020 presidential election. He told America and the world that he won the election. Now four years later, Trump is still telling the same lie. His supporters have bought into the lie and are undermining the integrity of elections and putting poll workers in harm’s way. At what point will those supporting Trump realize that he has led them down the proverbial rabbit hole with his lies?

During the first and only debate that Donald Trump had with President Joe Biden, the fact-checkers certified that Trump told thirty-four lies in ninety minutes. Yet, his supporters hung on to his every word/lie. Now that the Democratic Party has persuaded Joe Biden not to run in the 2024 election, Trump has turned his lying ways toward Vice President Kamala Harris. During a recent interview at the conference of the National Association of Black Journalists, he was fact-checked in real-time. His interviewer, ABC News correspondent Rachel Scott, pushed back every time Trump told a lie. He then resorted to insulting Rachel Scott, a Black female, who was interviewing him. Trump called her “disgraceful,” “hostile,” and “rude.” He then went on with his lying and insulting ways. Socrates once stated that, “When the debate is lost, slander becomes the tool of the losers.” Socrates was born in 470 BCE and died in 399 BCE. Yet, he knew that there were people like Trump who would be in the public’s eye.

The lies Trump told during the interview with Rachel Scott continued to mount. He stated that Kamala Harris was not Black. He told lies about immigrants, abortions, elections, and the Black Lives Matter movement. As Trump campaigns, the lies continue to mount. One of the ongoing lies that Trump continues to spread is that the Biden administration has done nothing to solve the southern border crisis. First, we must remember that Trump claimed that he would build a wall to keep immigrants out of the country. Further, he told the world that “Mexico would pay for the wall.” Well, he lied on both accounts. The truth is that the Biden administration brokered a bipartisan agreement to address the border crisis. Trump told his Republican colleagues in the House and Senate to kill the bill. Why? Because Trump said it would give Biden a big win. This should tell America that Trump is not interested in solving the border crisis. He is only interested in himself. However, he continues the lie that Biden is not doing anything about the southern border crisis.

Trump has claimed that he has a 98% approval rating in Israel. That is a lie. According to a poll released in March, he only has a 44% approval rating. Trump has lied about his role in the “January 6th insurrection.” Many of his supporters have been convicted for their role in the insurrection, Yet, Trump has not been held accountable. He pushed his supporters to go to the Capitol and “fight like hell” in an effort to prevent the certification of the 2020 vote. He told his supporters that he would meet them at the Capitol. That was a lie. He lied to his supporters! He did not meet them there, and they paid the price, not him.

His 2020 election lies have been called out by members of his own party. Yet, he continues to lie about that election. In his recent rally in Atlanta, Georgia, Trump continued to lie about the 2020 election. He went on to issue insults to Governor Brian Kemp and his wife because Kemp did not support the lie that Trump won Georgia in 2020. The rants by Trump were so bad that Governor Kemp had to issue a statement asking Trump to “Leave my family out of it.” We have seen this play out before with Ted Cruz, Mark Rubio, and Lindsey Graham. Yet, one by one, they have pledged their support of Trump and his lies. What if Governor Kemp would say enough is enough and call for his supporters to abandon Trump? Well, that might be a pipe dream, but it would send a huge message to Trump.

Trump’s latest lie is that Kamala Harris has a low IQ. He has publicly called her “garbage.” We know that both of these are lies. However, his supporters are buying into these false claims. I simply refer you back to the quote from Socrates.

Trump has told tens of thousands of lies during, and after his time in office, and he continues to do so. According to the Washington Post, Trump told “30,573 false or misleading claims during his time in office.” This was “an average of twenty-one lies per day.” Yet, his supporters continue to say that he was the best president ever.

As I close, I refer to the words I penned in a previous article. The Republican Party has abandoned almost all of the principles that grounded them for years. Their unapologetic support of Donald Trump {and his lies} flies in the face of all of the core principles that the party had stood on for years. Otherwise good people have abandoned their sense of right and decency to support a very flawed individual who is the antithesis of the Republican Party’s core values. Even his running mate, J. D. Vance warned America of the evil threat that Trump presents, comparing him to Hitler. Yet, he is on the ticket with Trump.

Why is America buying the lies from Trump? Is it about white supremacy? The big lie that Columbus discovered America was generally accepted for years and taught in schools across America. That was a lie! The big lie that Jesus Christ is a white man has been preached in churches across America, and pictures of a white Jesus are still posted in churches in the Black and White communities. That was a lie! The big lie that Trump won the 2020 election?! That was a lie! Why is it that people know the truth, but choose to rally behind lies?