When we first came up with IGN Insider, we took a long look at all of our existing IGN channels to find topics and areas we don't already cover; we searched for content that would be interesting to die-hard gamers and IGN fans alike. After thinking about issues that frustrate us, we discovered that there is one major trend that has emerged since the latest wave of gaming consoles sprang to life: developers frequently release their titles across multiple consoles. The editors at IGN try to do their best to write about each gaming system and objectively review all the major titles, but there is one thing we don't often do: compare games across platforms. Is Madden 2004 still worth a purchase on GameCube, or does the controller hinder the experience? Is Need for Speed: Underground just as thrilling on PlayStation 2 as it is on the often more robust GameCube and Xbox platforms?

If you're at a conflict every time a game debuts on multiple platforms, this feature is for you. The Head-to-Head series of articles cuts through all the different takes the editors have on games, compares the facts, and presents you with one uniform opinion on all the versions.

About Our Head-to-Head Comparison

The following comparisons were drawn assuming the highest level of available equipment. To be completely fair, we examine all versions with the notion that everyone has HDTVs, surround sound setups, wireless controllers, etc.

Example One: The PC version of a game features poor mouse and keyboard control, but supports controllers. We do not fault it for its substandard mouse and keyboard control.

Example Two: The PlayStation 2 version of a game supports four-player, but it requires the use of a multitap. The functionality is still there. We do not fault it for it.

Example Three: The GameCube and Xbox versions of a game support progressive scan, but the PS2 does not. The games all look graphically identical, barring the benefits of progressive scan. The result: an even tie between the GameCube and Xbox.

We highly recommend that you read the detailed reports for every area of comparison -- there are many facts that might sway your decision based on your setup.

Lord of the Rings: Return of the King (GCN, PS2, Xbox, PC)

Last year EA launched onto the scene with one of the biggest book-made franchises of all-time, Lord of the Rings. Based mostly on the new Peter Jackson films, it began with Two Towers, offering up a quest that blended elements of The Fellowship of the Ring and the second movie. There had been Tolkien (the author of the original books) based videogames before, but EA had made an instantly playable arcade hack-and-slash that had all the presentation of the movies.

This year it comes back to us with Return of the King, which has more refined gameplay, brand-new movie content, and a few new gameplay features to boot. If you added Two Towers to your collection last year, you're definitely going to want a repeat performance with Return of the King.

It's available for four platforms: GameCube, PlayStation 2, Xbox, and PC. Last year EA did not deliver a product that performed technically well on all the platforms. On the consoles, GameCube was actually the best version to own.

Will GameCube return to the throne this year or has EA done better with the console ports? And, what does the PC have to offer? All your answers are right here.

Features

Lord of the Rings: Return of the King follows closely in the footsteps of The Two Towers. The game is structured very much in the same way, offering up a series of levels based on movie locations as well as a number of unlockables along the way, such as concept art and cast interviews. All four versions share the same assets in this regard. You won't be getting any extra playable characters or secret levels that you can't in another version.

New to this year's version is the co-operative mode, and this is actually where the line begins to become clear between all four versions. The PC version has co-operative play, but it is neither online nor over LAN. Like the console versions, you have to play it on the same screen -- hope you have a big monitor!

On the consoles, it's the same. Multiplayer is limited to co-operative mode, which takes place on the same screen. Interestingly, the cameras are all changed slightly to accommodate this. So they pull out for a higher, overhead perspective. It's not split-screen on any of the platforms.

This is important to understand because the PlayStation 2 is the only version of the four to support online play. One would think you wouldn't have to worry about these imposed camera restrictions, but the gameplay sticks to being designed for play on one screen. There are no real benefits to playing online with the PS2 other than you don't have to rely on friends or family -- you can hop online and play anytime you want. There are drawbacks, though. You can't use a keyboard to communicate while playing the game. So narrowband modem users are more limited here. Only via broadband can you communicate during gameplay with a headset.

So, for features they are all pretty much even. PlayStation 2 barely edges them out with its online support, but because it is so limited and perhaps less fulfilling than sitting in front of the same TV with a friend, it's very minor. The benefits it has come in the form of being on EA's official leaderboards and increasing your experience level.

Winner Ranking:

1. PlayStation 2

2. GameCube/Xbox/PC (Tie)

Difference between 1 and 2: minor

Control

Return of the King controls very much like it did last year. You have three main attack buttons to create combos and a parry move. Another button shifts you into ranged attack mode. All four platforms have more than enough buttons to accommodate this, so controlling Return of the King feels great on all the platforms.

Except for PC. You do NOT want to use a keyboard and mouse. We try to stay objective in our Head-to-Heads and not judge a control setup if all the functionality is there, but using mouse and keyboard controls on the PC simply does not work well.

Because you can simply buy a controller adapter (and probably already own one) for PC, though, it's still an even tie between all four platforms. Fill in the blank here: whatever controller you like best is your true number-one choice.

Winner Ranking:

1. GameCube/PlayStation 2/Xbox/PC (Tie)

Sound

Electronic Arts' Lord of the Rings videogames have the great benefit of being based on wonderfully scored and soundly engineered (get it?) movies. It should come as no surprise that Return of the King is one of the most aurally pleasing action titles we've heard. And if you want to hear the videogame for all its worth, you'll listen up because there are definitely different qualities with each platform.

Return of the King features a powerful mix of professional voiceovers by the real actors, the orchestrated score, and custom sound effects. It comes through on the GameCube, PlayStation 2, Xbox, and PC, but some do it better justice.

The GameCube is the weakest link here. It offers up Dolby Pro Logic II, and offers up an adequate soundscape. However, when you stack it up to the other versions it is easy to tell that the frequency range is flatter; specifically, it really lacks the powerful thumps from the subwoofer.

Xbox, PS2, and PC are very close contenders with each other. Xbox really catches your ear with Dolby Digital -- a clean sound, good balance across the surround speakers, and hard-hitting bass. Alas, both cut-scenes and in-game action aren't in 5.1. Your center speaking will be silent at all times, sending even character dialogue and narration to the left and right (and surround) channels. Only when you access the pause menu does your center speaker break its silence. Still, it sounds clean -- although true 5.1 support would have been nice for a soundtrack of this magnitude. PC is pretty close if you've got the right setup. PS2 implements DTS (4.0) surround and like some other EA projects before it, such as the recently released SSX 3, it sounds fantastic -- very similar to Xbox. Its only noticeable "weaknesses" by comparison would be less separated bass and surround range. Still, all three of them are safe bets.

To sum up, Xbox is the best sounding for consoles (PC about equal if you've got the right setup), PS2 lingers closely behind with quality DTS implementation, and GameCube does the trick, but is decidedly flat.

Winner Ranking:

1. Xbox/PC

2. PlayStation 2

3. GameCube

Difference between 1 and 2: minor

Difference between 2 and 3: medium

Graphics

Like last year's Two Towers there are a lot of differences with Return of the King across the platforms. Before we get into it, though, it should be noted that all of them look spectacular. The art implementation is even better than it was last year, so the end result is jaw-dropping in many ways.

Let's start by examining the versions with these side-by-side screenshots.

[NOTE: All versions were color adjusted and leveled with the same settings. The PC version by its very nature takes direct screenshots without any artifacting, but it's that sharp on your monitor for the most part.]

This first screenshot speaks volumes about each version. The PC version is sharp and this depends on the resolution you play it at, but it definitely has a number of advantages. As for the consoles versions, you'll notice that they all look fairly similar, but the Xbox version looks blurry and a little washed out. The brightness is something inherent to the Xbox hardware, and it doesn't look like EA compensated for it at all. So it does come off as having a greyer tint to it.

As for the blur, this is actually the result of strong anti-aliasing. In screenshot form it tends to make it look worse, but when in motion it is lessened and takes the edge off of the visuals, so to speak. Meanwhile PlayStation 2 suffers from jagged edges, but EA implemented a filter of some sort to help hide them and reduce flicker. It works, but as you can see in the screens it doesn't fix the problems.

Meanwhile, GameCube fits somewhere in between. Its anti-aliasing isn't as strong as the PS2's and it is more saturated with color, and thus darker. This can be good at times and bad at times, just as the Xbox's brightness can be.

The framerates prove to be quite different. The Xbox is locked tightly at 30 frames per second. The first few levels ran pretty consistently and smoothly. Even in fog-ridden, effect-heavy area such as the above. In the same place, however, the PlayStation 2 takes a bit of a dive -- especially when enemies come into play. Then we get to the GameCube which runs surprisingly fast -- it tries to push for 60 frames per second. The problem is that it does not stick, and ends up bouncing back and forth between 60 and 30. This inconsistency can prove to draw the eye of those that keep their eye on framerates.

PC's framerate depends on your system, but with the required specifications it does not run particularly well. We ran it on a 2.6GHz PC with 1GB RAM and a GeForce FX 5200 and playing above 800x600 with detail settings on was out of the question. If you have faster cards, though, getting it to run in 1024 makes it very pretty.

Overall, it's kind of a tough call. Obviously if you have a powerful PC, you're going to get the best visuals there. For consoles, though, it comes down to GameCube and Xbox. The strong anti-aliasing and brightness may turn some people off on the Xbox iteration, while the darker saturation and more jumpy framerate (even if it averages higher) might turn off others.

For that reason, we'd recommend the PC first and then either the GCN or Xbox version after that -- take your pick depending on what you see here. The PS2 version looks nice, but without the same filtering to smooth it out it you could do better with the others.

Winner Ranking:

1. PC

2. GameCube/Xbox (Tie)

3. PlayStation 2

Difference between 1 and 2: medium

Difference between 2 and 3: minor

Presentation

For our last destination, we checked how Electronic Arts has gone about presentation each version individually. Namely we examined the load times and FMV quality, but there's GBA connectivity to think about too. Regarding the movie cut-scenes, you see a great deal of footage from the silver-screen films, making it all the more important that the quality is there.

This year EA changed its compression routine. The PC version, because it stores big clips on your PC's hard dive, has the sharpest FMV. When you compare it to consoles, you can see it has more quality. Between GameCube, PlayStation 2, and Xbox the differences are subtle. Last year GameCube had some more compression due to the smaller disc size. But this year EA has implemented a new compression format that actually removes frames of the FMV sequences in favor of quality. The end result is far better, and all three versions experience a slight jumpiness in the movies because of it. GameCube, though, seems to have some more frames removed. So it is jumpier at points. Note that the audio never skips when this happens.

Moving on, the load times are slightly different. On PC they are pretty quick, but that depends on whether you save it to your hard drive, how fast your hard drive is, etc. The consoles don't have a large range of load times for the most part.

Load PointGameCubePlayStation 2XboxBoot-up17 sec.34 sec.17 sec.First Level9 sec.14 sec. 6.5 sec. Second Level8 sec.14 sec. 6.5 sec.

The initial boot-up is the only thing that makes much of a difference here, with the PS2 version taking twice the time. But it's really the level loading that you need to consider yourself with, and even then the difference between GameCube and PlayStation 2 are about five seconds -- not a big deal. EA did an excellent job of pulling data from Xbox as you can see, however, as load times are extremely quick and consistent. If the seconds bother you, it's the one to go with.

Finally, there is Game Boy Advance connectivity to consider. You have to own Lord of the Rings: Return of the King for the handheld for connectivity to work with the GameCube, which is why this falls under our presentation category. With the connection you can unlock/trade ancient artifacts such as the Prestige Sword, Horn Bow, and Deagol's Skull. Unfortunately EA could not provide solid details to us on exactly what you do with these artifacts. We'll update when we learn more about their function to gameplay, but, hey, it's definitely something the other versions don't have so it earns the GCN version a little more respect for this category.

Nonetheless, Xbox and PC have nice FMV sequences and faster load times. Given the large amount of movie clips you see, we place importance on the FMV, so they get the presentation award. GameCube's load times are nearly identical to Xbox, and the GBA functionality is a plus, but we wouldn't recommend the jumpier FMV if you can avoid it. On occasion PS2 actually will encounter this FMV stuttering.

Winner Ranking:

1. Xbox/PC (Tie)

2. GameCube

3. PlayStation 2

Difference between 1 and 2: minor

Difference between 2 and 3: minor

Final Verdict

Whew! That's a lot of info. Maybe we should have broken this novel up into a trilogy, eh? Okay, maybe not. Based on all we've gathered here, what version is best to get? Well, as always there are many factors to consider.

Online co-op play in combination with the leaderboards is a feature you won't find anywhere but the PlayStation 2. For replay value, unless you have a constant stock of friends willing to keep up the fight with you, the other versions don't compare.

If you're not going online, the PC offers you everything you want if you've got the setup -- the controller, the powerful graphics and sound car, the speakers, etc.

On consoles, the Xbox visuals aren't a huge leap over the others, but if you've got the sound system and home theatre setup you'll enjoy all the movie scenes and the gameplay a lot more. After it, GameCube looks great visually, has some cool GBA extras, but the audio and FMV are the weak zones.

Overall, we place our recommendations behind the PlayStation 2. The fact is it offers up an extra gameplay feature that the others don't have. Visuals don't hinder the gameplay, and the sound is above average for the console.

And, hey, if you're not going online, you know where to go.

Overall Winner:PlayStation 2

Winner Ranking:

1. PlayStation 2

2. PC

3. Xbox

4. GameCube

- Best offline console version: Xbox (visuals/sound/loads; minor advantage)

- Best version for single player: GameCube/PlayStation 2/Xbox/PC (tie)

- Best version for multiplayer: PlayStation 2 (online; minor advantage)

- Best version for videophiles: PC (medium advantage)

- Best version for audiophiles: Xbox/PC (tie)

- Best value/price: PC* (tie)

*PC version retails for both $39.99 and $49.99 as of time of publish.

What did you think of our Return of the King Head-to-Head?