One of the great things about film festivals is you often get to see things on screen that you ordinarily can't, whether it's offbeat subject matter or unusual storytelling techniques.

"The Weight of Water," playing toda tomorrow at the Provincetown International Film Festival, certainly qualifies as something out of the ordinary, despite its mainstream director and big-name cast.

After all, how many movies have you seen that offer a flashback within a flashback within a flashback?

This might sound like the cinematic equivalent of an ice pick to the forehead, but it isn't. "The Weight of Water," directed by Kathryn Bigelow ("Point Break," "Strange Days"), is a mystery that remains open to interpretation, but it's easy enough to follow, despite its complex structure.

Like "The French Lieutenant's Woman," it jumps back and forth between the past and present. The past involves the brutal murder of two women on an island off the coast of New Hampshire in 1873. The present involves a photojournalist (Catherine McCormack) who, with her poet husband (Sean Penn), his brother (Josh Lucas), and the brother's girlfriend (Elizabeth Hurley), sails to the island and investigates the crime.

Similarities between the two stories emerge. Both involve dark secrets, passion, jealousy, abandonment and rage. Both involve innocence and corruption, guilt and punishment. The film shows, with compassion, how people can be driven to commit horrible acts, and leaves us feeling more pity than contempt for them.

In the flashback scenes, particularly, "The Weight of Water" has the spooky atmosphere of a horror film. Picture a cross between the story of Lizzie Borden with "The Crucible." The scenes set in the present, depicting alienation among lovers under sunny skies, is reminiscent of Michelangelo Antonioni's "L'Aventura."

How's that for an offbeat combination?

Of the strong cast, Sarah Polley ("The Sweet Hereafter") stands out as a troubled young woman who witnesses the double murder.

On a lighter note, there's "Cowgirls," Sally Clark's informative, entertaining documentary about women in the rodeo.

Set in Alberta, Canada, "Cowgirls" introduces us to trick riders, barrel racers, rodeo queens and others, providing an overview of the women (who range in age from 18 to 78), their backgrounds and their milieu. Because it covers a lot of material in a short time (30 minutes), it leaves the moviegoer hungry for more, such as an in-depth portrait of one of the subjects. That's not a flaw of the film it's proof that Clark has done a good job of capturing our interest.

Tim Miller is the Times' entertainment editor. He can be reached at 508-862-1140 or tmiller@capecodonline.com.