Hollywood film Kill Bill is one wild ride is the brain child of director Quentin Tarantino, with the sequential Kill Bill: Vol 2 following a year later in 2004.

Oscar nominee Uma Thurman stars as assassin Beatrix Kiddo, who embarks on a bloody quest for revenge after waking from a four-year coma to discover she has survived a massacre orchestrated by her former fiancé Bill (David Carradine) at the couple's wedding rehearsal.

Taking revenge on her fellow assassins while in pursuit of Bill, Beatrix slowly gets the best of the other members of the Deadly Viper Assassination Squad.

These included O-Ren Ishii (Lucy Liu), Elle Driver (Daryl Hannah), Vernita Green (Vivica A. Fox), Budd (Michael Madsen) and eventually Bill himself.

But, what are the actors up to now?

Uma Thurman

Uma Thurman has worked consistently since her breakout Kill Bill role.

The 51-year-old actress starred alongside Meryl Streep in age-gap love drama, Prime.

Over more recent years, she has also tried her hand at TV with appearances in shows including The Slap and Imposters.

Uma also starred in the supernatural Netflix mystery series Chambers which was cancelled after just one season and is currently filming forthcoming TV drama Suspicion alongside Big Bang Theory star Kunal Nayyar.

The Apple TV+ series centres on the kidnapping of the son of a prominent American businesswoman.

In her personal life, Uma divorced her second husband Ethan Hawke in 2005 and has three children, including Stranger Things and Fear Street star, Maya Hawke.

Lucy Liu

The infamous scalping of O-Ren Ishii is one of the most revered moments in the Kill Bill franchise.

Lucy Liu has also become somewhat of an icon, enjoying roles in a number of other successful franchises.

The 52-year-old actress played one third of the Charlie's Angels team in the 2000 movie and its 2003 sequel, Full Throttle.

Lucy also tried her hand at TV and starred as a female Dr. Joan Watson in the modern Sherlock Holmes adaptation Elementary, while taking charge behind the lens a number of times.

The Southland star has directed episodes of New Amsterdam, Elementary and Luke Cage.

She has a son named Rockwell Lloyd.

Michael Madsen

Michael Madsen's Budd was a particularly sinister antagonist in Kill Bill: Vol 2, memorably burying Beatrix alive.

The 64-year-old Reservoir Dogs actor has gone on to star in a number of wide-ranging projects.

Following Kill Bill, Michael appeared in Hollywood movies Sin City and Scary Movie 4.

He also starred in TV drama 24 and famously enjoyed a stint on the ninth series of the UK edition of Celebrity Big Brother two years later, finishing in fourth place.

In 2014, Michael appeared in Rita Ora and Iggy Azalea's Black Widow music video.

He reunited with Tarantino in 2019 and portrayed Sheriff Hackett in Once Upon A Time... In Hollywood.

Michael has five children and is still married to his second wife, DeAnna Madsen.

Daryl Hannah

Daryl Hannah may have spawned one of the most popular Halloween costumes in history, courtesy of Elle Driver.

The one-eyed assassin made a chilling rival for The Bride but despite her scene-stealing performance, Daryl has kept things pretty lowkey since her Kill Bill success.

The 60-year-old actress played a number of minor roles before joining the Netflix hit TV series Sense8 as Angelica Turing from 2015 - 2018.

She has also directed two documentary films and married her husband Neil Young in 2018.

David Carradine

David Carradine played the titular character in Kill Bill, sadly passing away six years later.

The 72-year-old actor was reportedly found dead in the closet of a hotel room in Thailand in 2009.

According to ABC News, Thai police suspected his death was likely an accident which resulted from dangerous sex practises.

Reuters reported at the time that the star's private autopsy results indicated that his death was caused by asphyxiation.

Vivica A. Fox

Following her Kill Bill success, Vivica A. Fox went on to take the TV world by storm.

In 2007, the Vernita Green star joined Larry David's hit HBO show Curb Your Enthusiasm.

She also memorably starred as Candace in Empire.

Earlier this year, Vivica was unmasked as Mother Nature on the US edition of The Masked Singer.

The now 57-year-old actress divorced her husband Christopher Harvest in 2002 and last year, revealed that not having children was 'the biggest regret of her life'.

She told Oprah's Where Are They Now: "That's the biggest regret of my life that I have is that I didn't have a child."