Ali Wentworth is the wife of famed one-time political adviser to the Bill Clinton Administration, George Stephanopoulos, who works as an ABC News anchor. She is an American actress who started her fame with starring role in comedy television series. In living color . She is known for starring in some of the hugely popular films like Jerry Maguire, It’s Complicated and Office Space .

The blonde actress has also worked as an executive producer on the television series, Head Fall . In addition, Wentworth has honed her skills as a bent author, publishing many books including The WASP Cookbook, Ali in Wonderland: And Other Tall Tales, and Happily Ali After And Other Fairly True Tales. Read below background info on George Stephanopoulos’ Wife Biography, Net Worth and Height

Ali Wentworth Biography (Age)

The trained film producer was born Alexandra Elliott Wentworth on January 12, 1965 in Washington DC to Mabel Brandon Cabot and Eric Wentworth. She was born into an important family; Her father worked for the Washington Post as a reporter, while her mother was White House Social Secretary for Nancy Reagan from 1981 to 1983.

More so, Henry Brand, for whom her stepfather worked for The Sunday Times in London as editor. She is of white ethnicity and holds American citizenship. Ali Wentworth completed her undergraduate education at Dana Hall School for Girls in Wellesley, Massachusetts and expanded her education by enrolling at Bard College in Annandale-on-Hudson, graduating in 1988.

career

George Stephanopoulos’ wife began her career with a role in the comic television series In Living Color in 1992. There she portrayed the character of Candy Cane, a young promiscuous daughter of grandpa Jack McGee and a rabid child who has a bad relationship with her has male co-workers. The actress has also appeared in other television series such as The Love Bug, Seinfeld, Hardball, and Bliss . She has also appeared in several blockbuster films including The Real Blonde and It’s Complicated .