Very interesting!

Blue Star was a chain of Petrol Stations / Garages / Motor Dealers in the UK which lasted into the 1970s.

They often sold Regent brand, later Texaco petrol.

There was a "Blue Star" very close to where I lived in Liverpool on Smithdown Road.

My father and grandfather always used to have their cars serviced there when I was young in the 60s and 70s.

This closed in the late 1970s, lay derelict for some time, before the petrol forecourt reopened as an Elf, later Total branded filling station in 1982 and still trades today as the Total Smithdown Road Filling Station.

The actual car workshops behind the forecourt were flattened and houses built thereon around the same time as the forecourt reopened.

A few years ago I acquired on of these houses and thus live on part of a Blue Star garage site!

I was aware of some "Blue Star" garages when I went on trips with my parents.

One of which I also became well aware of was near Hayle in Cornwall, close to the end of the current Hayle by pass andnot far from family holiday destinations in Penzance and St. Ives.

The is garage was then on what was the original A30. Part of the building still stands but is no longer a garage. When it was a garage I think it had a cafe attached.

This "Blue Star" I think sold shell petrol or did at least in its later years.

I am sure a few years ago there were some internet references to the former "Blue Star" - but can't, this evening find it.

John

Thanks John - nice to get a bit of background as to who Blue Star were.

The one you photographed must have lain abandoned for years. Nice to see the old logo and type face if a bit faded. The one near me had an iluminated blue star on a a curved concrete canopy

Wish I had a photograph of it now! I was into photography when I was young but never tended to take photos of local things. :-((

John

National - or National Benzole was a petroleum brand not a garage chain.

National ended up as a subsidiary of BP.

A potted history can be found at

[ame]http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Benzole[/ame]

Blue Star outlets appeared to favour selling Regent petrol a sub brand of Texaco - though I don't think they were exclusively Regent/Texaco.

The one at Hayle, Cornwall, I am sure was either Shell or BP.

If one googles BLue Star Garages on an image search it produced a garage photo taken in 1962 and it appears to be a multi fuel brand garage. Regent, Fina Mobil and Shell!

Multi fuel brand garages were quite common once - but do any still exist now?

John

I always consider it a bonus when you are out looking for something and you unwittingly come across something unexpected. Well this happened to me yesterday. A curious disused filling station in a New Forset town. No history forthcoming but worth recording here I feel.

View attachment 97113

View attachment 97114

View attachment 97115

View attachment 97116

View attachment 97117

View attachment 97118

View attachment 97119

View attachment 97120

View attachment 97121

View attachment 97122

Thanks for looking.

Hello I was the last person to run the site as petrol station. The surrounding land was in the lease. We started with tin soldier pumps and had all the fittings people rave about today.I was 21 went took it on. Best regards Martin

Welcome, Martin. That's interesting. When was that and what petrol were you selling?

We sold Texaco petrol they had just bought Regent so we had the Regent, Texaco tops which they all rave about on motoring memorabilia shows. Blue star was either a regent product range. But I seem to recall Blue Star batteries. We were there 1974 or thereabouts I am 69 years old now. The new bypass killed the petrol station forever. We campaigned for the bypass to start further up. If that had happened it might be open today. But they bypass was used and next petrol caught all the passing trade.