Lisa Faulkner has shared a very flirty snap from her bed as she gushed over her TV chef husband John Torode.

The Madama Blanc actress, 52, has been married to the MasterChef star, 58, since 2019. They met on the set of Celebrity MasterChef back in 2010 and have often shared loved-up snaps together. At the time of her MasterChef victory, Lisa was married to EastEnders' actor Chris Coghill, who she shares adopted daughter Billie with. John was also married to Jessica Torode but they separated in 2011 and officially divorced in 2014.

Lisa and John have been loved-up since they both became single and their passion shows no sign of dying down. On Monday night, Lisa shared a snap of herself lounging in bed watching her husband on the TV. John appeared on the screen as part of his MasterChef duties and Lisa gushed: "My @johntorodecooks is so handsome and I love his knowledge."

Earlier this month, Lisa shared the sweet gift John gave to her as they were separated due to work commitments. She shared a snap of a mug in the dishwasher with the inscription: "Lisa, forever yours, John, 24.10.19," which is the date they got married. Captioning the post, the actress shared: "B****y miss you my Johno @johntorodecooks."

John was in Queensland, Australia for Beef Australia, which is described as a "week-long exhibition and celebration of all facets of the sustainable beef industry, including producers, scientists, chefs, students, exhibitors, and everyone in between". Despite being apart due to work, the couple recently teamed up with each other for a new career venture.

They announced the release of their new cook book as Lisa said: "We're so excited to be sharing our first book together with you all." The front cover of their project, titled John and Lisa's Kitchen, shows the couple beaming in their kitchen in the couple's lavish London home.

In an previous interview with the Mail Online, John revealed how he sent a life-changing letter to Lisa in the hopes of being together. He explained: "I'd separated from my wife [Jessica] which was awful, and I was reluctant to approach Lisa face to face as I didn't fancy the prospect of her saying no, so I wrote her a letter. If I'd got no response, it wouldn't matter. Cowardly? S***, yeah. I'm as cowardly as they get."

John, who has four kids from his previous relationships, surprised Lisa with a festive proposal and an enormous diamond ring. They exchanged vows at the gorgeous 17th-century Aynhoe Park country estate, nestled in the Northamptonshire countryside in 2019. In 2000, John had married ex wife Jessica Torode, with the pair going on to welcome children Lou, 18, and Jonah, 20. John already had two sons with his previous partner Angela - Casper and Marselle.