CLEVELAND, Ohio — It’s spring training, so you should expect stories like this out of the desert.

I’m talking about Angel Martinez, the infielder who is 9 of 17 this spring with a pair of homers, a triple and two doubles.

Will Martinez make the opening day roster? Nope. Is he a prospect? Yep. Of course, Cleveland has seemingly had millions of middle infield prospects on the roster in recent years, several highly regarded.

Stories by Terry Pluto

The impact of Stephen Vogt & how the Guardians keep winning – Terry Pluto

Cavs extended Jarrett Allen’s contract, why are some fans unhappy? – Terry Pluto

What is behind Guardians trading for Lane Thomas? — Terry Pluto

But you haven’t heard Martinez mentioned in the same sentence with Gabriel Arias, Brayan Rocchio, Juan Brito and Tyler Freeman.

But maybe, just maybe, Martinez could end up surpassing several of those players.

As you read this story, you’ll follow the research I did on Martinez.

At the age of 21, Martinez split last season between Class AA and AAA. He batted .251 (.715 OPS) with 14 HR and 79 RBI.

Martinez was promoted to Class AAA Columbus for the final two months of the season, hitting .268 (.722 OPS). The numbers seem modest. But Martinez was 21 playing in the International League where the average age is 26.

He spent most of the winter in Goodyear, refining his swing by adding an open stance with his hands held a bit higher. It’s a way to add more power.

WHAT ABOUT SCOUTING REPORTS?

At the start of the 2023 season, the analytics site FanraGaphs highlighted Martinez in “Some Sleeper Hitter Candidates” in the minors.

Ben Clemens wrote: “An up-the-middle defender with bat-to-ball skills and at least acceptable extra-base pop? It’s the profile that this series loves most, and doing it at Double-A at age 20 (in 2022) only makes it better … If he weren’t on the Guardians, a team with so many promising young middle infielders that they blot out the sun, he might be on a fast track to the major leagues or at least to an up-and-down role. He even draws walks!”

Martinez is the son of Sandy Martinez, who was an MLB backup catcher for eight seasons. He played a game with Cleveland in 2004. Sandy Martinez is a manager in the Washington Nationals farm system.

A native of the Dominican Republic, Angel Martinez signed with Cleveland in 2018 for $500,000. He was 16.

Baseball America ranks him the No. 6 prospect in the Guardians system:

“Martinez isn’t the most tooled-up of Cleveland’s middle infielders, but his baseball IQ and maturity make all his tools play up. The switch-hitter has a simple swing from both sides and can drive the ball to all fields with solid power potential, though it plays as doubles pop now. Martinez is a disciplined hitter and makes a lot of contact, priding himself in his ability to make quick adjustments at the plate.

“After initially struggling in pro ball versus lefthanders, he has improved dramatically as a right handed hitter as he has matured. Martinez is an average runner but still covers a lot of ground thanks to his instincts and makes sound decisions defensively. He also has worked hard to improve his arm strength, which now grades as plus. Martinez can play anywhere on the infield and in 2023 mostly played second base at Double-A Akron and then mostly third base in Columbus, with a solid amount of time at shortstop at both spots. That versatility should help him find a spot in Cleveland.”

Talking to some people in Goodyear, they like his quick swing and believe he can add power. Those 14 HR at the age of 21 between Class AA and AAA show promise. Martinez is 6-foot and 200 pounds, so there is room on his frame to get stronger.

ABOUT THE GUARDIANS

1. Cleveland seems serious about Tyler Freeman in center field. They believe he has the natural skills to play the outfield, even though his pro outfield experience is limited to one inning prior to this spring. Early returns on Freeman in center are positive.

2. Will Freeman hit? That’s the question. The Guardians see him hitting the ball harder this spring after making some adjustment during the winter. Freeman is a career .311 hitter (.812 OPS) in the minors. In 254 MLB plate appearances, he’s batted .244 (.641 OPS) with four homers. He’s 24 and this is a chance for Freeman to show he’s more than a utility player.

3. Cleveland traded Cody Morris to the Yankees for Estevan Florial. He’s a 26-year-old center fielder who hit 28 HR in Class AAA last season. He’s out of minor league options. He’s off to a rough start: 2 of 16 with eight strikeouts. The good news for Florial is the spring is young and he’ll receive a lot of chances to impress. So far, he’s been chasing a lot of high pitches. The Guardians have seen some better at bats lately.

4. There are reasons to be excited about Chase DeLauter. I fell in baseball love with him last season when watching him at Class A Lake County and wrote about him. He has had only 242 pro at-bats (.345, .945 OPS). He batted .299 (.914 OPS) in the Arizona Fall League, where some of baseball’s top prospects play.

5. DeLauter is 5 of 11 this spring with a homer. The lefty hitter has a strong arm and would be a natural right fielder. But DeLauter has been a pro for only one year. At the end of last season he rose to Class AA Akron, where he was 8 of 22 (.364). So his experience is limited. Will they start him in Class AA or Class AAA? He’s only 22.

6. Kyle Manzardo is 5 of 12 this spring. Like DeLauter, he’s a lefty hitter who has Cleveland justifiably excited. Acquired from Tampa Bay in the Aaron Civale deal, Manzardo is a career .284 hitter (.926 OPS) in 862 minor league plate appearances.

7. Manzardo played with DeLauter in the Arizona Fall League, batting .272 (.905 OPS) with six homers in 103 plate appearances. He is more MLB ready than DeLauter, having spent all last season in Class AAA.

8. I like both of these hitters. They don’t have a high strikeout rate. They aren’t strictly pull hitters and show power to the opposite field. Manzardo is a so-so first baseman. He’s only 23.