The Cleveland Guardians entered spring training looking for ways to score more runs.

With a bit more than a week before opening day, the team is still searching for more impact from their offense.

While they may not make the opening day roster, the spring training offensive success of prospects Angel Martinez, and Daniel Schneemann have opened eyes.

Infielder Angel Martinez, who turned 22 in January, has had some clutch hits this spring.

This spring, third baseman/shortstop Daniel Schneemann, 27, has provided both superb defense and an ability to hit line-drive darts off the barrel of the bat.

About Angel Martinez:

The son of former major league catcher Sandy Martinez, switch-hitting Angel Martinez is 6-0, 200 pounds.

In 2018, the younger Martinez was signed as an international free agent by the Guardians out of the Dominican Republic. He received a $500,000 signing bonus.

The younger Martinez has played parts of four seasons in the Guardians minor league system.

Last year, at the age of 21, Martinez played at Double-A Akron, and Triple-A Columbus.

While at Akron, Martinez played 99 games, splitting time between second base, shortstop, and third base.

Martinez hit .245, with 11 homers, and 60 RBIs in 437 Akron plate appearances. He stole 10 bases in 13 attempts.

Martinez showed promise while at Columbus. He hit .268, with three homers and 19 RBIs in 134 plate appearances.

This spring, playing in 12 major league spring training games, Martinez has hit a very loud .448, with two doubles, a triple, and two home runs in 29 plate appearances. He has struck out only five times.

While he needs more development time, it has been evident this spring that Martinez offers the Guardians some power in his bat, and an excellent approach to his game.

Showing maturity and advanced game awareness, Martinez has impressed this scout with his smooth, efficient, and quality results on both sides of the ball.

About Daniel Schneemann:

This old scout was raving about Daniel Schneemann to Tom Hamilton, the Hall of Fame worthy Guardians radio announcer.

Hamilton told this writer that Daniel Schneemann was the most improved player he has seen with the team this spring.

Hamilton should know. He joined the Indians/Guardians radio booth in 1990. He knows baseball, and baseball talent.

Schneemann, 27, played baseball at Brigham Young University.

His college profile, is noted here: https://byucougars.com/sports/baseball/roster/season/2018/player/daniel-schneemann, depicts his time as a collegiate player.

The left-handed hitting Schneemann has been sparkling so far this spring, playing third base and shortstop for Cleveland.

The ball jumps off his bat. He has hit line-drive ropes to right/center, and right field.

At 6-0, 185 pounds, Schneemann appears to be a much better all-around player than his 33rd round, 2018 draft selection would indicate.

Schneemann does not appear on Guardians top prospect lists. However, his game is so complete, and of such consistent quality, he may force himself onto the big league club at some point this season.

Schneemann, however, may have to wait for poor performance, or an injury to get his chance.

To date this spring, Schneemann is hitting .344, with two doubles, a triple, a home run, and six RBIs in 38 plate appearances.

Both Angel Martinez and Daniel Schneemann are among Cleveland Guardians players that can give fans great hope for the future.

Both players have abilities that may be very welcome in Cleveland at some point this season. Especially at the plate.