Photo credit: The University of Sheffield

The International Council of Nurses is delighted to announce the appointment of Professor Parveen Ali as the new Editor-in-Chief of its official journal, the International Nursing Review (INR).

Professor Ali takes over from Professor Sue Turale, who has edited the journal since May 2013.

Dr Ali has a distinguished career as a professor of nursing at the University of Sheffield, and is the recipient of various awards, including a Mary Seacole Leadership Award, a Sigma Theta Tau International Emerging Nurse Researcher award and a Pakistani Diaspora Achievement Award. Her doctoral research focused on gender-based violence, domestic abuse, inequalities in health related to gender and ethnicity, and healthcare professionals’ preparation.

She is a Registered Nurse and Midwife, a Registered Nurse Teacher, a Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy, a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce, and a Fellow of the Faculty of Public Health. Dr Ali is also a visiting professor at Dow University of Health Sciences, Karachi, Pakistan and the Khyber Medical University, Peshawar, Pakistan.

Professor Ali has more than ten years’ experience as an editor and editorial board member of several prominent nursing journals.

Speaking about her appointment as Editor-in-Chief, Dr Ali said: “I am delighted to be joining the team of International Nursing Review as the Editor-in-Chief. It is an excellent journal with an impressive history and contribution to the nursing profession. Building on the well-established strengths of INR, I will work to promote the journal as the first choice for manuscript submission on nursing policy internationally.

‘I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Professor Sue Turale for her excellent leadership and contribution to the journal and the profession of nursing. I am looking forward to working with her and learning from her over the next few months.”

ICN Chief Executive Officer Howard Catton said: “The International Nursing Review is an important nursing journal and we have been extremely fortunate to have it led by Sue Turale over the past eight years. I am sure that Professor Ali will continue that great track record as she brings her unique set of experiences and skills to the role. I would like to thank Professor Turale for her excellent stewardship of the journal and bid her a fond farewell and wish her well in the future. I am looking forward to working with Professor Ali as she takes the journal forward over the coming years.”

Professor Turale said: “I am delighted that Professor Parveen Ali has been appointed as INR's new Editor-in-Chief. With her background, qualifications, experience, and passion for nursing, she will quickly develop into her new role. Since the journal began in its fledgling days as a newsletter in the early 1900s, it has continued as ICN's voice of nursing worldwide, with authors today having an amazing geographical spread.

‘I have loved the challenging and hard work on INR and contributing to ICN's advancement of nursing knowledge. This includes that authors focus on nurses and nursing and develop their writing skills to be inclusive of the implications for nursing, health and social policy. It has been great to see the impact factor of INR increase during my tenure, but I believe this is not the all-important factor in journal publishing. Developing nursing scholarship, gathering, and sharing evidence and ideas across borders is critical, and has been foundational to my work. My warmest wishes to Parveen and all of the INR team for their future endeavours to grow and disseminate INR into the future.”

More than 14,000 institutions worldwide have access to the latest INR content, including more than 6,500 that receive it at low cost or for free as part of a philanthropic initiative to ensure access to nursing research is available wherever it is needed.