Post by girlsfriday on

Charlotte Flair:

VS

Lais Ribeiro:

Tale of the Tape:

Charlotte Flair:

Age: 35

Height: 5'10

W/L: 16-14 (16KOs)

Vs

Lais Ribeiro:

Age: 32

Height: 6 ½

W/L: 0-10

(Free Agent vs Free Agent)

(Written by Girls Friday/Results by Lookout!)

Intro:

We kick off this years fifth round of the Diamond Boxing tournament in California's The KIA Forum with Charlotte Flair (1-3) taking on the still winless Lais Ribeiro (0-4) for the first time in their career, will the wrestler improve her record or will she be upset by the beautiful Brazilian model.

Heading into the bout both gave their thoughts on camera, with Charlotte her usual brash self as she walks into the video room, wearing a glittery blue dress, hands on her hips as she stares at the camera, she says "do I really need to do this, you know this is an easy win for me, Lais is an embarrassment of a fighter, guess I need to school her as everyone else has, woo!" She struts out the door almost as quickly as she came in.

Lais meanwhile heads into the room wearing a black sports bra, matching coloured yoga pants and trainers, she sits down looking annoyed herself, asking the camera as if asking the organiser "why do I have to do this, you all think I am a f**king loser, well I am sick of losing, I need to win sometime soon or what's the point of all this for me, f**k sake" tilting her head back, staring hard at the ceiling before she stands up, pushing the stool over as she does, then storms out the room.

Fight night, out first comes Charlotte to her usual grandiose entrance, blue sparks flying each side of her on the stage as she stands in her blue robe, her coach standing several feet behind her as this is all about her, she begins her walk to the ring looking intense as she struts her stuff, getting her robe taken off by her coach as she goes to the side of the ring nearest the presses cameras to do her famous front headstand flip, then slides under the ropes into the ring wearing a light blue sports bra with silver trim, matching blue trunks, boots, with blue gloves, hair tied into a ponytail as she yells "woo!" To get her fans going.

Now here comes Lais with her coach, an angry look on her face as she marches down the aisle to the ring, tapping her black gloves together as she heads to the ring steps, soon stepping into the ring wearing a black sports bra with gold trim, matching trunks and boots, hair tied into a braid as she bounces on her toes, looking across the ring at Charlotte with a look of hatred.

Referee brings them together with Charlotte cockily wooing into Lais's face, earning her a shove to the face from the model, as the referee needs to hold them apart as they look ready to go now, calmed down by their coaches, the referee is able to finish their instructions, no glove touch from the fighters as they instead return to their corners, the bell rings to start 10 rounds of welterweight action.

Round 1:

At the bell both trade stiff punches straight through guards, Charlotte looking to dominate the action, Lais though shows her hand speed, catching Charlotte across her cheek with a right cross as Charlotte tries to step in with a jab, Lais adding a follow up double jab to knock back the head of her opponent.

Charlotte finding herself forced to the outside part of the ring by Lais's combos, it looks like another slow start for Flair, who tightens her guard up, Lais looking fired up to prove her point that she belongs in this tournament, she takes a few sniper like punches through her guard to show Charlotte won't cower so easily, the better work though coming from Ribeiro as she digs more punches around the body of her foe.

Late in the round Charlotte finds an opening to strike back, deflecting a straight to hammer in one of her own, Lais finding herself driven to the center of the round by a three punch combo straight into her face, Lais holding onto Charlotte to stop her momentum, both wrestle around till the referee can split them apart, eyes locked as they push apart, going toe to toe in the final moments of the round, the bell rings with Charlotte tapping her gloves together to show some frustration, Lais nodding to her corner as they give her praise for a strong start.

Round 2:

Back out they come with Charlotte being more aggressive early on, driving back her opponent as she lands a straight under the chin of Lais, a follow up left/right cross forces Ribeiro to retreat back near the ropes, where she shows good fighting spirit to fight back, both landing through the others mitts to knock back the others head as neither is really focusing much on defence.

Ducking under a jab, Charlotte hammers in two right hooks to the body, nearly headbutting Lais on her chin as she steps in, Charlotte drives her onto the ropes, where she sticks to the body till she is held onto by the Brazilian beauty, referee needed to break them up so they can resume, Lais striking Charlotte with a double jab as they resume to show she isn't going to back down from her.

Both trade in midrange as they try to establish control, again Lais misses with a jab, earning herself an overhand right on her jaw and a short left to her body, bullied back into a neutral corner as Charlotte uses her left forearm to drive her back, banging away go the body to get groans from the model, the bell rings to end proceedings with both scowling at each other before heading off to their corners.

Round 3:

Again they trade stiff single punches as Charlotte looks to be aggressive but this time steps into a one-two combo flush into her face, Lais looking good when she can push the tempo of the fight, making Flair have to go on the back foot till she has the wrestler on the ropes, landing some nice crisp hooks around the guard of the blonde till she is clinched.

Broken apart with Ribeiro looking to keep on the front foot, getting clipped across her cheek though, with a follow up left hook turning Lais's head the other way, she is able to press back Lais to the ropes, where she goes back to work on the body of the model, who has to clinch up herself to slow down her opponent.

Into the final minute they go with both looking to win as they nearly clash heads, Lais able to step back to catch Charlotte with a straight into the top of her head, forcing her to back off as Lais stalks her, the round ends with Lais marching back to her corner looking fired up, Charlotte a little marked up, still she gives the crowd a "woo!" To show them she isn't worried.

Round 4:

Pushing out their corners, Lais looks like she is wanting to push back Charlotte, instead she is met with a left across her jaw, then a straight into her solar plexus that slows her assault, Charlotte ducking under a right cross to add more punishment to the torso of her taller opponent.

An uppercut rocks Lais as her head snaps back, Charlotte starting to land the power shots in as this is looking familiar, Lais swings in a left cross that is blocked, ANOTHER UPPERCUT LANDS AND THIS TIME LAIS CRUMBLES DOWN ONTO HER FRONT!

Charlotte gives her trademark woo to the crowd before strutting to the neutral corner, 1...2....3... Lais groans as she lays prone on her front, 4...5...6.. Not much movement from her, 7...8.. Eyes shut as her head turns to the right, 9....10 it's over!

Winner Charlotte Flair KO Round 4

After:

Another butt kicking for Lais as she goes eleven without a win, Charlotte smirks as she looks at Lais, arms at her side as she expects the crowd to show their love, getting a mixed response as some clearly wanted the upset to come, instead they get to see Charlotte improve her tournament record.

The winner returns to her corner to be met with a nod and a pat on her back, Charlotte doesn't look too bothered by their praise, more interested in playing with the crowd as she cups her ears after getting her gloves taken off, some wooing her, others booing her.

Lais meanwhile is safely turned to her side and checked over, she is groaning as she holds her jaw, her coach helping her to sit up as they try to console her, Lais shaking her head as she doesn't want to hear it, instead asking to be helped up and out the ring, her coach nods before they help her stand.

Acting like a crutch as they help Lais out the ring and up the ramp, this tournament certainly hasn't been the way Lais hoped it would be, two fights for her now to break her career duck, she has Karlie Kloss and Gemma Atkinson left to fight, which is hardly an easy pairing for her to end the tournament on.

In the ring Charlotte gets her left hand raised by the referee, she does a lap of honour inside the ring as she doesn't seem to care what reaction she actually gets, all that matters is that the spotlight is on her, with her tournament record still not exactly anything to shout about at two wins out of fight.

Still as Charlotte leaves the ring, she has won three of her last four fights, maybe explaining her renewed confidence as she walks up the ramp with her arms out at her side, as if all eyes should be on her, with Gemma Atkinson and Emma Corrin ahead for her, Charlotte could end up playing a part in who wins this tournament when she fights Emma.