Re: Makhdum Amin Fahim hands over PPPP to King Bilawal Bhutto Zardari

Another gimmick from the PhD DOG in Dubai to put life in the corsp of the dead horse (PPP = Peeo Peelaao Phutto party). Won't succeed anyway.

My best prayers are with Makhdoom Fahim. May Allah grant him recovery, good health and long life. That being said, where is the rule of law in this land of pure???

For the sake of discussion, agar insaaf undhaa hotta hai tow HE should have been arrested from the plane tarmac as there are unbailable arrest warrants against him, issued 4 times by the kangroo courts. Regardless of his health condition he SHOULD have been in police custody in the hospital until the time the bail is granted and arrest warrants revoked on health grounds. Though "sheedoun" aur "beemarioun" kay peechay chuupna in logoun kee purani aadataien aur herkataein haein, still however, law is a law, PERIOD. Badmaashoun aur manhoos ashraafia kay leeaye yahaan doosra qanoon hai aur lawful awaam kay leaye aur. L-A-A-N-A-T hai aisay nizam e adal per. Quran o hadees (SAW) ki roshnee may.... Isee leeaye ham say pehlee aqwaam tabah hooein theien.

Re: Makhdum Amin Fahim hands over PPPP to King Bilawal Bhutto Zardari

KARACHI: Pakistan People's Party Parliamentarians (PPPP) terminally ill leader, Makhdoom Amin Fahim, who has been under intensive care treatment in Dubai for his cancer, Sunday night returned to Pakistan but for a few weeks, the party leaders said.

"As apposed to rumours doing rounds in the media, Amin Fahim is not critical at all. His condition has improved. That's why he has been given a break so that he could spend some time home. His stay in Pakistan will be short for he has to continue his therapy abroad," Advisor to Chief Minister Sindh, Ali Hassan told media at the airport.

Later, Amin Fahim, who was flown to Karachi in an air-ambulance, was shifted to a private hospital located in upscale Defence Housing Authority.

After he was diagnosed with cancer a few months back, Fahim, looking for for advanced treatment, flew to Germany, where he received a not so successful lump surgery. He then tried his luck in United States but his condition tied the hands of physicians in a Boston hospital.

Since then he had been under post-surgery treatment in London --before moving to Dubai.

Earlier, party sources revealed his condition was not good. "There are little signs of improvement in his health" the sources added.

However, his personal secretary ruled out such negative reports.

Furthermore, sources also quoted his close relatives as saying that Fahim's homecoming was arranged after he had wished for it.-Samaa