Walk-in interviews are being conducted by the Cambridge High School, Badichowdi, Hyderabad for recruitment of teachers. Candidates should attend the interviews as per the details of the appointment provided hereunder.

Employer: Cambridge High School

Address: Badichowdi, Hyderabad, Telangana, India

Email: Not mentioned in the advertisement

URL:Not provided

Phone: 6301946275

Skills: Not mentioned in the advertisement

Experience: Not mentioned in the advertisement

Education: Not mentioned in the advertisement

Job Location: Hyderabad (View Jobs in Hyderabad Jobs in Telangana)

Want to get instant alerts about new jobs? Join us on Facebook

Cambridge High School, Badichowdi, Hyderabad Teaching Job Vacancies

Cambridge High School, Badichowdi, Hyderabad is seeking trained, skilled, and qualified candidates for the following positions.

Job profile:

1. Teachers of Social and Computer for Classes I-V

2. Teachers of Telegu and Science for Classes VI to VII

3. Teachers of Mathematics, Biology, English, and Computer for classes VIII to X

4. Physical Education Teacher

5. Pre-Primary Teacher

6. Accountant

Candidates should apply for the above job vacancies immediately.

The school is seeking female candidates only.

No detailed qualifications and experience required for the said vacancies are not mentioned in the advertisement.

Contact details:

Cambridge High School,

Badichowdi, Hyderabad,

Telangana, India

Interested candidates are invited to attend the walk-in interview along with an updated resume immediately between 10 am to 2 pm.

The advertisement has been issued on 26.05.2023 but no specific date of the interview is mentioned therein.

For more details visit http://103.241.136.50/epaper/DC/HYD/510X798/2023-05-26/b_images/HYD_2023-05-26_maip8_11.jpg

About Employer

Cambridge High School is a reputed institute located in Badichowdi, Hyderabad

Find more jobs: Teaching Jobs in India

Want to get instant alerts about new jobs? Join us on Facebook

Related Jobs

Hyderabad Vidya Bhavan High School Recruitment of Teachers & Computer Operator

Hyderabad Vidya Bhavan High School wants to appoint candidates for teaching and non-teaching job vacancies. Applicants should apply immediately for employment.

Kotha Yellaiah High School, Secunderabad is hiring various Teachers

Kotha Yellaiah High School, Secunderabad has published an employment notification for the recruitment of Teachers. Candidates should read this jo page to know about details of the teaching job vacancies.

Andalus English School, Mysore Recruitment of Teachers, Headmistress, Coordinator, Assistant, etc.

Andalus English School, Mysore affiliated with the Karnataka State Board has published employment notification for the various teaching job vacancies as mentioned on this job page.

CBSE Board Mahabodhi School, Mysuru Engagement of Teachers

Mahabodhi School, Mysore affiliated with the Central Board of Secondary Education, New Delhi has published a recruitment notice for various teaching job vacancies as written hereunder.

Slate High School, Jannaram, Telangana Teaching & Non-Teaching Job Vacancies

An appointment notice has been advertised by Slate High School, Jannaram, Telangana for the engagement of teachers, librarians, Warden, etc. Apply for the recruitment urgently as per the info written hereunder.

St. Marys School, Hyderabad Teaching Job Vacancies Appointment of Teachers

St. Marys School, Hyderabad has announced an employment notification for the engagement of various teachers. Visit this job page to know about all details of employment.

Walk-in Interviews for Recruitment of Teachers in Naagarjuna Group of Schools, Hyderabad

Naagarjuna Group of Schools, Hyderabad has announced various teaching job vacancies for the appointment of teachers. Details of the employment can be had hereunder.

Teaching Job Vacancies in Sunflower School, Diamond Point, Secunderabad

Sunflower School, Diamond Point, Secunderabad has issued an employment notice for the recruitment of various Teachers. The detailed appointment notice can be had hereunder.

Rainbow School, Old Bowenpally, Secunderabad Teaching & Non-Teaching Job Vacancies

Rainbow School, Old Bowenpally, Secunderabad has announced an employment notification for the recruitment of Teachers, Administrator, Vice-Principal, etc. All details related to the appointment can be had hereunder.

Walk-in-Interview for Teaching Job Vacancies in Cambridge High School, Saidabad, Hyderabad

Cambridge High School, Saidabad, Hyderabad is going to organize a walk-in interview for the recruitment of various teachers. On this job page, you will obtain complete details of the appointment.

Kotha Yellaiah High School, Secunderabad is hiring various Teachers

Kotha Yellaiah High School, Secunderabad has published an employment notification for the recruitment of Teachers. Candidates should read this jo page to know about details of the teaching job vacancies.

Hyderabad Vidya Bhavan High School Recruitment of Teachers & Computer Operator

Hyderabad Vidya Bhavan High School wants to appoint candidates for teaching and non-teaching job vacancies. Applicants should apply immediately for employment.