A few months ago, I was fortunate enough to have access to the short film “…Would Have Been My Last Complaint” created by Camille Lacadée (see her guest writer essay as...

District B13 Ultimatum, directed by Patrick Alessandrin (2009) After a photographic and an historical interpretation of what I called for this series’ purposes, Fortress Paris, this third part introduces its cinematographic...

I got the chance last week, to curate a small cine-club session organized by Danielle Willems (see her essay for the Funambulist) who was kind enough to ask me so. I...

The Element of Crime is a 1984 movie by Lars Von Trier that dramatizes a post-apocalyptic (sepia) world where people lives in the ruins of the ancient one. The scenario focuses...

The King is Alive is one more movie in the desert (see previous post) and was directed by Kristian Levring. It takes place in the ghost town of Kolmanskop in Namibia...

The secret life of words by Isabel Coixet is a beautiful film that take place on a offshore oil rig situated in the West of Ireland. The rig’s characteristic is to...

Dark Days (2000) is a documentary by Marc Singer traveling in the New York’s underground in order to meet the “mole people”, a group of homeless living underneath and along Penn...

Touche pas a la femme blanche (Don’t touch the white woman) is an incredible satirist western by Marco Ferreri filmed in 1974 in…the center of Paris. In fact, the entire movie...

Following the previous article about the desert, let’s stay in the realm of sand with the masterpiece 砂の女 (The woman in the dunes) by Hiroshi Teshigahara directly interpreted from Kobo Abe‘s...

Desert is something between an heterotopia and what I would call an atopia (a non-space). It defines itself as a territory whose limits seem to reach the infinite, which is not...

The film Fahrenheit 451 is a 1966 cinematographic adaptation from Francois Truffaut of Ray Bradbury‘s 1953 novel. More than a visualization of the book, Truffaut’s movie is a real personal interpretation...

The haunted house is a paradigm of the heterotopia. A close environment, few clear accesses of entrance/exit and inside, a whole bunch of new behaviors and rules. The short film Beyond...

Children of Men (2006) by Alfonso Cuarón is a fable of a near future terrifyingly recognizable. An event (whatever it is), triggered a global situation of extremism in UK developing a...

One flew over the cuckoo’s nest is a movie directed by Milos Forman in 1975 interpreting Ken Kesey’s novel from the same name. The heterotopia here is a mental hospital which...

– How far away is that Room ? – If you go straight, about two hundreds meters, but there is no going straight here It has nothing to do with chance...

I do know that this movie won’t be released before March 2010 but Tim Burton’s revisit of Lewis Caroll’s Alice in Wonderland for Walt Disney won’t miss to be another interesting...

Dodes’ka-den is the first color movie by Akira Kurosawa. It is set in a Japanese slum and explores several more or less dramatic episodes of its inhabitants’ life. The film’s name...

Miyazaki’s movies are always introducing heterotopias hosting imaginaries (I use the word imaginary here in an Edouard Glissant meaning) only accessible to people who did not give up their interpretation of...

David Cronenberg’s Naked Lunch (1991) is an interpretation of William Burroughs’ novel (1959) and Burroughs’ life in general. It thus dramatizes the interzone, the famous heterotopia of the novel, Burroughs’ vision...

Underground is a 1995 movie by Emir Kusturica dramatizing not only an heterotopia but also an heterochronia. In fact, the topia here is a underground resistant shelter in Yougoslavia started during...