"Your military rank and position are obvious to me, Colonel. And so are your attempts to discredit me with my superiors in Berlin."

Sturmbannführer von Hapen was kriminaldirektor of all the Gestapo activities in southern Germany. His offices were in the Schloss Adler. He'd studied in Düsseldorf as a young man. He was a calculating and naturally distrustful man, who had a rocky relationship with Standartenführer Paul Kramer, who he accused of trying to discredit him with his superiors in Berlin.

Kramer kept much from him, including the importance of General George Carnaby; all von Hapen knew of Carnaby was that he was an American general. Kramer never told the Gestapo officer that Carnaby was one of the chief coordinators of planning for the second front. When General Julius Rosemeyer arrived, he took an instant dislike to von Hapen and requested that Kramer keep him out of the loop where Carnaby was concerned. This made von Hapen suspicious of the two.

While at the Zum Wilden Hirsch, von Hapen flirted with a waitress named Heidi Schmidt, and was then introduced to her newly arrived cousin, Maria Schenck, who he took an instant liking to. He escorted both women up to the Schloss Adler by cable car. When Heidi disappeared, a suspicious von Hapen went to see Maria, and the two discussed her hometown of Dusseldorf, where von Hapen had been a university student. He found holes in Maria's story, and eventually concluded that she was a spy. Rushing to tell Standartenführer Kramer, he found him in the Golden Hall and held everyone there at gunpoint.

A man introducing himself as Sturmbanführer Johann Schmidt explained he and a leutnant had uncovered a plot to assassinate Hitler. Everyone present was involved, and Schmidt had the names of the conspirators in his pocket. Von Hapen demanded them. As Schmidt walked over, Mary entered. Distracted by her entrance, von Hapen left himself open, and was shot dead by 1st Lieutenant Morris Schaffer.

Awards[]

Iron Cross 1st Class

Iron Cross 2nd Class

German Cross (Gold)

Close Combat Clasp (Gold)

Wound Badge (Silver)

General Assault Badge

SS Long Service Award

Notes[]

He has the SS lightning bolts on his uniform collar. In reality, Gestapo uniforms did not have the SS symbol, substituting a blank black patch.

He is dressed in inaccurate prewar black.

Gallery[]

See Also[]