The majority (around 96%) of the population speaks Comorian; however, each island in the Comoros has a slightly different dialect of the language. These dialects are Shingazija, spoken on Grande Comore, Shimwali, spoken on Moheli and Shinzwani, spoken on Anjouan. While these dialects are slightly different to each other, they retain some similarities so people from different islands are still able to communicate easily with each other.

Comorian is also closely related to Swahili but they're recognized as two different languages, rather than Comorian being classified as a dialect of Swahili, as there's mutual unintelligibility between the two.

While Comorian may be the language most locals use, French is actually the language spoken in government and for commerce and is the language spoken (alongside Arabic) as part of the school curriculum on the islands. This stems from the colonisation by the French from the period of 1841 to 1975. However, Comorian is spoken at home and in other industries and is considered the informal/casual language.

Because there are distinct languages spoken in different settings on the Comoros Islands, it can be hard to know which language to brush up on before your trip. However, as many locals don't speak fluent English, learning a bit of either French or Comorian will go a long way in helping you communicate during your travels. As Comorian is the language that's most prevalent, we've put together some Shingazija Comorian words/phrases you should be familiar with before embarking on your adventure.

Hello (general greeting) - Jeje

Good morning - Bariza soubouni

Good afternoon - Bariza mtsana

Good evening - Bariza massihou

How are you? - Hufanyiha dje?

If you're having a hard time remembering these common words/phrases, we recommend traveling with a guidebook or language translator so you'll never be stuck in a situation where you can't communicate. Showing that you're making an effort to understand and learn the local language will also be appreciated and goes a long way in showing respect for Comorian culture.