Page/Link:

Page URL: HTML link: Citations:

MLA style: "KEVIN & PERRY GO LARGE.." The Free Library. 2000 Penske Business Media, LLC 21 Aug. 2024 https://www.thefreelibrary.com/KEVIN+%26+PERRY+GO+LARGE.-a062087703

Chicago style: The Free Library. S.v. KEVIN & PERRY GO LARGE.." Retrieved Aug 21 2024 from https://www.thefreelibrary.com/KEVIN+%26+PERRY+GO+LARGE.-a062087703

APA style: KEVIN & PERRY GO LARGE.. (n.d.) >The Free Library. (2014). Retrieved Aug 21 2024 from https://www.thefreelibrary.com/KEVIN+%26+PERRY+GO+LARGE.-a062087703

(U.K.)

An Icon release of an Icon Entertainment Intl. presentation of a Tiger Aspect Pictures production, in association with Icon Prods. and Fragile Films. Produced by Peter Bennett-Jones, Jolyon Symonds, Harry Enfield. Executive producers, Bruce Davey, Ralph Kamp, Barnaby Thompson. Co-producer, Paul Tucker.

Directed by Ed Bye. Screenplay, Harry Enfield, David Cummings. Camera (Deluxe London prints), Alan Almond; editor, Mark Wybourn; music production, New State Entertainment; production designer, Tom Brown; art director, Dave Allday; costume designer, Denise Simmons; sound (Dolby Digital), Chris Munro; assistant director, Max Keene; casting, Janey Fothergill. Reviewed at UGC Trocadero 1, London, April 22, 2000. Running time: 82 MIN.

With: Harry Enfield, Kathy Burke, Rhys Ifans, Laura Fraser, James Fleet, Louisa Rix, Tabitha Wady, Paul Whitehouse, Natasha Little.

Determined to prove the Farrelly brothers nonstarters, the filmmakers behind "Kevin & Perry Go Large" have created a loutish Britcom that easily tops the record for erection and bodily function jokes -- but don't realize that gross-out humor is only passingly funny at feature-film length when bereft of pacing, plot and character development. Based on two characters that emerged from local comedian Harry Enfield's TV sketch show, this fast local playoff item will go larger on half-inch.

Enfield and Cockney actress Kathy Burke play two dimwitted 15-year-old schoolboys. A cross between Garth in "Wayne's World" and Harry Dunne in "Dumb & Dumber," Kevin (Enfield) is the rebellious son of middle-class parents (James Fleet, Louisa Rix, reliable). He, with pudgy buddy Perry (Burke), aspires to be a world-famous rock singer.

First, however, the lads are desperate to get laid, and decide the best place for that is the Spanish isle of Ibiza, favored spot for young partying Brits into sun, sea and sex. When Kevin foils a bank robber by accidentally setting off the alarm with his uncontrollable erection, the two win a reward that provides the wherewithal for their trip. The bad news is that Kevin's parents insist on coming along.

Pic, which barely manages to drag itself across 82 minutes, is slow to get into gear during the first two, British-set reels. These are closest to the original TV sketches: Kevin rails at his misunderstanding parents, loafs around in bad, baggy clothes with Perry and fantasizes about sex.

In Ibiza, the two morons hook up with superstar DJ Eyeball Paul (Rhys Ifans), who treats them like domestic slaves on the vague promise of listening to their demo tape. They also start pursuing two unattractive, raspy-voiced femmes, Candice (Laura Fraser, underused) and Gemma (Tabitha Wady), also desperate for some action.

Movie's toe-curling set piece comes when les girls keep the boys waiting for three hours while they transform themselves from white-trash, acne-infested teens into glamour queens -- a montage of exploding zit and body-hair jokes that sends the grossometer into orbit.

With little plot and even less verbal humor, the limitations of the two characters beyond their TV format are exposed early. Enfield's Kevin still has his funny moments, but it's Burke's Perry, waddling around like a tame penguin, who often steals scenes with her coy glances and moronic obedience to the troglodytic Kev. Other characters are basically reactive, apart from Ifans' wildly overplayed DJ, who favors vodka eye-baths as a way of getting the alcohol quicker into his bloodstream.

Direction (by TV helmer-producer Ed Bye) and tech credits are functional, with a busy pop soundtrack jogging things along.