Nuthin’ particularly interesting about today’s themed batch of capsule reviews. There are just a lotta movies that have the word “red” in their titles. Probably more than any other color, in fact (assuming you don’t consider white or black to be actual colors). I ended up just selecting nine, but I have several more ready-n’-waiting, most of them already committed to future themed batches. Plus, there’s these that have already been posted on the site: Red Dawn, The Hunt for Red October, Red Rock West, Red River, RED, and its sequel, RED 2. Just…a buncha red.

So, read the red:

Deep Red (1975)

Directed by Dario Argento. Starring David Hemmings, Daria Nicolodi, Glauco Mauri, Gabriele Lavia, Clara Calamai, Macha Méril, Giuliana Calandra, Eros Pagni. [R]

Archetypal high-style, blood-soaked giallo exercise from director/co-writer Argento. Unknown black-gloved killer runs rampant through Turin; the first victim’s downstairs neighbor (Hemmings) and a reporter (Nicolodi) look to get to the bottom of it. After the sensational prologue, movie settles into indistinct and sometimes bland plotting and plastic performances, but Argento’s salient visual flamboyance keeps things from ever getting too tedious. The creatively-choreographed murder and suspense scenes are doled out infrequently for the first hour-plus, but the pace picks up in the final act for a series of terrific shocks. Garish gore is indiscreet, but never labored at length. Horror highlights include the sudden appearance of a cackling doll and a necklace decapitation. First of several collaborations between Argento and local prog band Goblin, who provides the blaring rock score. Known as Profondo Rosso for its original Italian release, which is also over twenty minutes longer than the English-dubbed import.

73/100

Lady with Red Hair (1940)

Directed by Curtis Bernhardt. Starring Miriam Hopkins, Claude Rains, Richard Ainley, Laura Hope Crews, John Litel, Helen Westley, Victor Jory, Mona Barrie, Cecil Kellaway, Johnnie Russell.

Divorcée Leslie Carter (Hopkins), shunned from the high society she once favored for being an adultress, travels to New York City to become a stage star (despite not being an actress), determined to gain custody of her son. Liberally based on a true story (Carter’s memoirs, to be more precise), but still crowded with banalities and clichéd story turns on its way to an abrupt conclusion. Bernhardt’s bloodless direction doesn’t do any favors for the montages and transitions used to advance the characters through time. Hopkins misses the mark by a wide margin with her often over-the-top and discordant portrayal, but Rains does his usual tightly-controlled yet robust work as a theater producer that initially shuns the wannabe-starlet but later becomes quite taken with her. The ambitions of Charles Kenyon and Milton Krims’ screenplay are a far cry from the ambitions of its featured character.

44/100

The Man with One Red Shoe (1985)

Directed by Stan Dragoti. Starring Tom Hanks, Dabney Coleman, Lori Singer, Jim Belushi, Carrie Fisher, Charles Durning, Edward Herrmann, David Ogden Stiers, Irving Metzman, Tom Noonan, Gerrit Graham, David L. Lander. [PG]

Monotonous mistaken-identity comedy of a mild-mannered dip (Hanks) who gets caught up in a spy vs. spy game between corrupted CIA bigwigs; it’s hard enough for the oblivious guy to be carrying on an affair with his best friend’s wife (Fisher), but now he has to contend with sinister agents and assassins trying to surveil and/or kill him. Remake of French film, The Tall Blond Man with One Black Shoe, but it will be entirely tired and unoriginal even to those unfamiliar with the original version. Dragoti brings no energy to the situations, Robert Klane’s script fails to make anyone legitimately sympathetic or villainous (or humorous, for that matter), and as a pretty blonde agent who slowly falls for her mark, Singer has no chemistry at all with the leading man. In fact, Hanks doesn’t have much chemistry with anyone, and sorta tiptoes through the whole unfocused affair with halfhearted engagement. It’s never a good sign when Jim Belushi comes closer to getting an actual laugh than Tom Hanks.

29/100

The Red Badge of Courage (1951)

Directed by John Huston. Starring Audie Murphy, Bill Mauldin, John Dierkes, Arthur Hunnicut, Douglas Dick, Tim Durant, Royal Dano, (voice) James Whitmore.

Film version of Stephen Crane’s popular Civil War novel of doubt and endurance, cowardice and heroism; famed for being severely cut by the studio after a poor test screening, with Whitmore’s inserted narration consistently obstructing the action and emotion onscreen. Truncating the story results in empty passages, limited character definition, and a few instances of rote dialogue, though the cast does fine work and the drama is energized by Huston’s marvelous direction, filled with stark and unusual camera angles that suggest German Expressionism or film noir more than a sweeping war epic. Since the edited material is believed lost forever, it is unlikely that Huston’s original vision will ever see the light of day, but as is, it’s a creaking affair that’s closer to diverting than compelling, but worth a watch for the striking visuals and moments of poignancy.

70/100

Red Eye (2005)

Directed by Wes Craven. Starring Rachel McAdams, Cillian Murphy, Jayma Mays, Brian Cox, Robert Scalia, Angela Paton. [PG-13]

Brisk, compact thriller from director Craven eschews the bloody shocks for which he’s known in favor of a marginally naturalistic and tense psychological nail-biter. Charming but mysterious Murphy chats up hotel manager McAdams on a late flight, but things take a sinister turn when he reveals he wants something from her, the consequences either way being fatal. Film’s prognosis at the outset is foreboding with its parade of obnoxious passenger types—chatty old lady, rude jerk, precocious child, etc.—and it becomes overly clichéd and ridiculous by the end (right around the point someone fires an anti-tank missile, and that was already forgiving the person who could sprint with a hole in their trachea), but the middle stretch aboard the plane is reasonably effective, dominated by likable McAdams masking insecurities with resourceful conviction and Murphy’s creepy menace. A modest if uneven success, the kind of movie one can enjoy watching with half-interest aboard a plane and forget shortly after, though it seems unlikely to ever be broadcast on one.

59/100

The Red Shoes (1948)

Directed by Michael Powell & Emeric Pressburger. Starring Anton Walbrook, Marius Goring, Moira Shearer, Austin Trevor, Robert Helpmann, Ludmilla Tchérina, Esmond Knight, Léonide Massine, Alber Bassermann, Eric Berry, Irene Browne.

In this ballet melodrama, the dialogue is clanging, the acting is wooden, and the storytelling is trite. However, film is a visual medium, and on that level, it’s a minor triumph, generating gorgeous images saturated in the alien brightness of Technicolor (some backdrops and sets even look like oil paintings). Camera movement and light contrast generate the tension in this story loosely based on the Hans Christian Andersson fairytale, with ingénue dancer Shearer torn between her love for music student Goring and her love for stage performance. Much of the cast is composed of dancers who can act okay instead of actors who can dance okay, which makes the clichéd backstage drama practically turgid, but the impressionistic dance pieces soar and scream. The extended surreal dance centerpiece is arguably too detached from the reality of the live performance, but it’s the scene that lingers the longest, even more so than the necessary tragic conclusion. Ballet fanatics are likely to rate this one higher.

68/100

Red Sun (1971)

Directed by Terence Young. Starring Charles Bronson, Toshirô Mifune, Alain Delon, Ursula Andress, Capucine, Anthony Dawson, Lee Burton, Barta Barri, Tetsu Nakamura. [PG]

On paper, this probably looked like a sure thing: have Bronson play a gunslinging outlaw and Mifune play a samurai guard, recruit Delon to play a killer and throw in Andress as a quasi-love interest, hire a director who knows his way around tongue-in-cheek action (having previously helmed three James Bond pictures), then let them all loose in a standard payback/Macguffin-retrieval plot set in the Wild West. Alas, after a promising start, it never really gets going (more a series of loosely-connected vignettes of behavior and violence), and the payoffs are curiously muted, even the final showdown set in a burning cane field. International cast does what they can with comic book roles. Filmed in Spain, Spaghetti Western-style. Considering the number of surface similarities, this flick may have inspired the Jackie Chan/Owen Wilson vehicle, Shanghai Noon.

56/100

Trois Couleurs: Rouge (1994)

Directed by Krzysztof Kieślowski. Starring Irène Jacob, Jean-Louis Trintignant, Jean-Pierre Lorit, Frederique Feder, (voice) Marc Autheman. [R]

Part-time model and ballet dancer Jacob hits a dog with her car and goes to the address on the collar where she meets a retired judge (Trintignant) who eavesdrops on his neighbors’ phone conversations. The “red” of the title refers to one of the colors of the French flag (and revolutionary motto), which represents “fraternity,” and it’s the unusual platonic friendship that forms between these two individuals that sets this unusual and warmly compelling tale in motion, intrigued by the way people communicate and the way that fate and random circumstance dictate what happens in our lives (some of the plot developments are contrived by design). Quietly expressive performances from the main participants (which also includes a young man (Lorit) studying to become a judge—coincidences, right?—whose path consistently keeps missing Jacob’s). Beautifully photographed by Piotr Sobociński. Final film in Kieślowski’s Trois Couleurs trilogy; like the others, it serves as a standalone story, but there’s an unexpected moment at the end that folds in the major players of the other two pictures (involving brief walk-ons from Juliette Binoche, Zbigniew Zamachowski, and others).

86/100

The Woman in Red (1984)

Directed by Gene Wilder. Starring Gene Wilder, Charles Grodin, Judith Ivey, Kelly LeBrock, Joseph Bologna, Michael Huddleston, Gilda Radner, Kyle T. Heffner. [PG-13]

Mild sex farce based on the French film Pardon Mon Affaire (aka, An Elephant Can Be Extremely Deceptive, which is a more interesting title than either version deserves). Timid advertising agency exec and married man Wilder catches a glimpse of sexy LeBrock getting her red skirt blown up Marilyn Monroe-style and decides he must have her. Amusing at times, with a few memorable moments (e.g., Wilder’s stunned reactions while visiting his grandmother, Grodin’s tasteless and destructive blind pantomime, etc.), but unevenly paced and saddled with too many dull or unappealing episodes to encourage commitment. LeBrock’s film debut (as a model playing the part of a model, she’s certainly photogenic enough), but Radner, who would marry Wilder shortly after this film’s release, is wasted as usual in a rather throwaway role. Stevie Wonder’s soundtrack includes the Oscar-winning “I Just Called to Say I Love You”; please refer to Jack Black’s comments from High Fidelity for all that needs to be said about that.

40/100

Check back in tomorrow for the next daily update!