STAMFORD, CT – January 7, 2021– Harman Kardon continues to expand its award-winning Onyx Series with the addition of the Harman Kardon Onyx Studio 7. The latest Bluetooth speaker features superior stereo performance sound and an artful industrial design for the most discerning audio consumers.

The Harman Kardon Onyx Studio 7 comes enhanced with two 25mm dual tweeters for true stereo sound, combined with powerful bass and a built-in Li-on rechargeable battery that provides 8 hours of playtime. To elevate the listening experience, music enthusiasts can pair two sets of Onyx Studio 7 using the Harman Kardon wireless Dual Sound feature.

Its elegant round silhouette is crafted from premium materials featuring a sleek, die-cast anodized aluminum carrying handle for easy portability. The Onyx Studio 7 is available in three color options - Charcoal Black, Marine Blue and Winter Gray, combining easy portability with an enhanced, modern look.

“The Harman Kardon Onyx Studio 7 is a modernized addition to our award-winning collection,” said Rodney Chan, VP and GM for Harman Home Audio. “It sounds as great as it looks, and we’re excited to add this one to the popular Onyx collection.”

The Harman Kardon Onyx Studio 7 will be available in April 2021 for $299.95 on HarmanKardon.com as well as at retail locations including T-Mobile stores in the U.S. and for Brightstar customers worldwide.

ABOUT HARMAN KARDON

World-renowned audio brand Harman Kardon seamlessly merges function and form. Beloved for iconic design and exceptional sound, Harman Kardon products provide sophisticated audio in a premium package. Harman Kardon is part of HARMAN International, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co, LTD.

ABOUT HARMAN

HARMAN International (harman.com), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Samsung Electronics Co, LTD., designs and engineers connected products and solutions for automakers, consumers, and enterprises worldwide, including connected car systems, audio and visual products, enterprise automation solutions; and services supporting the Internet of Things. With leading brands including AKG®, Harman Kardon®, Infinity®, JBL®, Lexicon®, Mark Levinson® and Revel®, HARMAN is admired by audiophiles, musicians and the entertainment venues where they perform around the world. More than 25 million automobiles on the road today are equipped with HARMAN audio and connected car systems. Our software services power billions of mobile devices and systems that are connected, integrated and secure across all platforms, from work and home to car and mobile. HARMAN has a workforce of approximately 30,000 people across the Americas, Europe, and Asia.

For more information:

Denise Daly