Variety Awards Circuit section is the home for all awards news and related content throughout the year, featuring the following: the official predictions for the upcoming Oscars, Emmys, Grammys and Tony Awards ceremonies, curated by Variety senior awards editor Clayton Davis. The prediction pages reflect the current standings in the race and do not reflect personal preferences for any individual contender. As other formal (and informal) polls suggest, competitions are fluid and subject to change based on buzz and events. Predictions are updated every Thursday.

Visit the prediction pages for the respective ceremonies via the links below:

OSCARS | EMMYS | GRAMMYS | TONYS

2024 Emmy Predictions:

Outstanding Game Show &

Outstanding Host for a Game Show

Weekly Commentary (Updated: July 11, 2024): The outstanding game show category, which moved to the Primetime ceremony last year, is back with 28 submissions. These include long-standing staples like “Jeopardy” and “Wheel of Fortune,” as well as newcomers like “Game Changer” and “The Floor.” In addition, 20 hosts are up for consideration, including Wayne Brady, Ken Jennings, Pat Sajak, and last year’s winner Keke Palmer.

It was interesting to see Drew Carey not among the names submitted for host for “The Price is Right.”

Indie streaming platform Dropout, formerly CollegeHumor, aims for recognition at this year’s Primetime Emmys with a bold campaign to secure its first nominations. Its flagship series, “Game Changer,” hosted by Dropout CEO Sam Reich, revolutionizing the traditional game show format, is among the dark horse contenders vying for recognition. The blend of improv comedy and intense competition has not only enthralled audiences but also spawned three successful spinoffs: “Dirty Laundry,” “Make Some Noise,” and “Play It by Ear.” With many clips going viral on social media, it may be just the fresh new content Emmy voters are seeking. Imagine a newbie like a Dropout pushing out major studio titles — It’s a true David vs. Goliath in the awards race.

Pat Sajak, the iconic host of “Wheel of Fortune” since 1981, will take his final spin of the wheel on Friday, June 7, just before Emmy voting opens. This marks the game show and host category’s second year in the Primetime lineup. While the transition might appear seamless regarding voter demographics, Sajak’s name may not automatically resonate with the younger and newer members invited by the TV Academy. As the Academy diversifies its voter base, past winners like Keke Palmer for “Password” and contenders like “Game Changer” are gaining serious consideration.

Nevertheless, Sajak remains a revered figure in hosting, boasting 21 nominations and three wins (at the Daytime Emmys), the third most in history behind the late Alex Trebek (with 32) and Bob Barker (at 23). His competition will include household names like Ken Jennings (“Jeopardy”), Steve Harvey (“Family Feud”), Elizabeth Banks (“Press Your Luck”) and more, with a landscape that could yield one or two surprises down the line.

Nominations-round voting is open from June 13 and closes on June 24 at 10:00 p.m. PT. Voting for peer group-specific top ten round panels (if applicable) takes place between June 28 and July 8. The Emmy nominations will be announced on July 17. The Creative Arts and Governors Gala ceremonies will occur over two nights on Sept. 7-8. The 76th Primetime Emmy Awards will air on ABC on Sunday, Sept. 15.