Spyder Style Front Bumper Cover (101959) by Duraflex®. This bumper is stylish and aerodynamic. With Duraflex you get the best of both worlds, the light weight of fiberglass with the flexibility of plastic. Installation typically requires sanding, trimming, and filling prior to painting, thus, professional installation is recommended.

Specifications

Material: FiberglassColor: UnpaintedQuantity: 1 piece

Features

Designed to elevate your vehicle’s style above the rest

This ultra-stylish Duraflex bumper cover will replace your OEM bumper cover and transform the look of your vehicle.

Manufactured using proprietary polymer blend

Duraflex aerodynamics parts combine high-quality fiberglass, plastic, and flex resins for maximum flexibility and impact resistance. They come complete with a black protective coating.

Engineered for increased durability and lasting service life

Duraflex technology obtains a much higher durability rate than the average fiberglass product, resulting in years of reliable service.

Designed to offer modified aerodynamics to reduce drag

Thanks to its sleek, lightweight design, this Duraflex upgrade will come in handy to improve the overall aerodynamics of your vehicle, thus ensuring better performance and fuel economy.

Intended for off-road or show use only

Duraflex parts are not street-legal and are meant for off-road or showroom use only.

Duraflex® is recognized as one of the premier aerodynamic body part manufacturers in the world. Since their inception in 2000, the company has been dedicated to quality, value and customer service, consistently exceeding industry standards. Today, Extreme Dimensions offers over 7,000 products in carbon fiber, polyurethane and fiberglass. The company employs over 300 people at their 100,000 square feet U.S. headquarters and 200,000 square feet overseas manufacturing facility. Manufacturing and distributing the most innovative and largest selection of aerodynamic products in the industry, Extreme Dimensions’ focus is always to meet the needs of the automotive and truck markets.

Brand:

Part Number:

101959

Alternate MPN:

101959, B00G70OHK6

All body kits and products sold by Duraflex are aftermarket products and are intended for off-road or show use only. The brand is not liable for any damages or injury as a result of the use of its products. Due to the material and processes used in production, products will not be a “direct bolt-on.” Duraflex products may need prepping, sanding, shaving, filling gaps, and/or other body work. Modifications may include removal of the reinforcement bars, bumpers, turn signals, and other safety equipment on the vehicle. Duraflex highly recommends that a professional “custom” shop with fiberglass body kit experience perform the installation. Auto shops experienced in OEM installations may not be experienced in aftermarket fiberglass installations. All products sold by Duraflex are for off-road and show purposes only. Due to strict regulations by the Department of Transportation, some of these products are not approved for street/highway use. The brand does not recommend, and in fact discourages, these parts to be used on public streets and highways.

LIMITED WARRANTY

Duraflex warrants its branded products to be free from manufacturing defects in workmanship and materials when used for their intended purposes. This warranty is non-transferable. Any part of a Duraflex product that is covered by this warranty and that is found in reasonable judgment to be defective in materials or workmanship will be replaced in full at the request of the customer. For example, Duraflex will not replace a complete body kit if a single component is found to be defective.ArrayThe following situations are not covered by warranty:ArrayAny Duraflex product that has been subject to misuse, neglect, accident; or that has been improperly installed.ArrayAny Duraflex product that has been modified or altered from its original manufactured state.

Hood and Trunk Fitment Guarantee

Duraflex stands behind the fitment of its products. Once your hood is installed, Duraflex will fully replace your hood if it does not fall within the following guidelines of the brand’s Fitment Guarantee.ArrayHood does not clear a stock engine.ArrayGaps between the hood and the fenders are more than 1/2″ wide on each side.ArrayHood levels more than 3/8″ higher or lower than the fenders.ArrayLatch is too long or too short compared to the stock latch, causing the hood not to latch after adjusting.ArrayDuraflex does not guarantee fitment on vehicles that have been involved in accidents and/or have had body damages or customization.ArrayHood pins are required.

Trunks

Gaps between the trunk and the rear fenders are more than 1/2″ wide on each side.ArrayTrunk levels more than 3/8″ higher or lower than the rear fenders.ArrayDuraflex does not guarantee fitment on vehicles that have been involved in accidents and/or had body damages or customization.Array