Picture a sweet, big-eyed, worm-necked alien bicycling toward the moon and you can easily hear the rising strings and horns that create a rocket-fueled blast of music in his wake.

Now add fireworks.

That should give some idea of what audiences at the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra's outdoor concert in Newark will experience Friday. The goal, says conductor Emil de Cou, is that music from "E.T." will conjure the final scene of the Spielberg film.

“Spielberg loved the music so much that he said to cut the film to fit the music,” de Cou says.

“I try to make it as dramatic as it is in context, so that it becomes as visible and palpable as possible.”

The John Williams score shares the concert at Branch Brook Park (and another one in Hawthorne on Saturday) with more film music, seasonal patriotic favorites, theater tunes, operetta and classical pieces.

Soprano Channing Connell, mezzo-soprano Melissa Kornacki and baritone Jeremy Moore from Opera New Jersey will sing selections from Gilbert and Sullivan’s “H.M.S. Pinafore,” which the company will perform in full next month. The overture, “Sorry her lot” and “Nevermind the why and wherefore” are among the highlights.

“It’s the only time you get to hear ‘I’m Called Little Buttercup’ and the theme from (the Western movie) ‘The Big Country’ on the same program,” de Cou says with a laugh.

As the conductor points out, the tradition of eclectic summer concerts goes back to the days of John Philip Sousa, composer of “The Stars and Stripes Forever.”

“His band and orchestra traveled around the country and Sousa would conduct Beethoven and Victor Herbert or Jerome Kern or the pop songs of the day,” he says.

“The eclecticism is what makes it fun and what makes the pieces special next to each other.”

The concert includes Richard Rodgers’ “The Carousel Waltz,” Tchaikovsky’s Polonaise from “Eugene Onegin,” Johann Strauss Jr.’s “Voices of Spring” and Otto Nicolai’s overture to “The Merry Wives of Windsor.”

There’s also a little known overture by Leroy Anderson (a composer most popular for “Sleigh Ride”) that de Cou calls a forgotten gem. The piece comes from “Goldilocks,” a musical that may have been overshadowed by two others that opened in the late ’50s around the same time: “West Side Story” and “The Music Man.”

For de Cou, part of the appeal of leading informal summer fare is the chance to reach both symphony season subscribers and those who never have heard an orchestra. Before the Newark concert begins, kids can try out instruments, and area students will serve as the opening act.

“This is the perfect first concert,” de Cou says. “Bring a neighbor, bring a friend, bring kids. … In its own small way, it has a big, life-changing force when you bring great music into your life.”

De Cou first discovered classical music at an outdoor Hollywood Bowl concert as a child and is more than happy to spread the gospel.

“A lot of the music is just as substantive as it is in the concert hall, but it’s a totally open and fun setting,” he says. “You don’t need a program and you don’t need to think about how to dress or when to applaud. You just come.”

Where and when: Branch Brook Park, Seventh and Clifton avenues, Newark, Friday at 7:30 p.m. (family events begin at 6); Goffle Brook Park, Diamond Bridge Avenue and Goffle Road, Hawthorne, Saturday at 7:30 p.m.

How much: Free; visit njsymphony.org.

:

• New Jersey Symphony Orchestra announces 2012-13 season