Old carved wooden human effigy sculpture from the island of Sulawesi in Indonesia. Such sculptures were placed in front of burials as shrine figures and were adorned with clothing and acted as a mediu

Sulawesi Island, Indonesia, 19th/20th century, comprising: two carved and stained wooden figures, one male and one female, painted in black, blue, and red pigment, metal appliques to foreheads, both w

Southeast Asia, Indonesia, South Sulawesi, Toraja people, ca. 19th to early 20th century CE. A fascinating set of wooden anthropomorphic puppets known as tau tau, connected by two dowels. The figures

This is a very rare old ancestor idol figure from the Senufo peoples,Mali, Africa. A Fine older male ancestor with well weathered and well handled surface. The figure measures 15 inches tall ( 18 inch

A Toraja Style Tau Tau Figure. Wood, pigment, metal. Sulawesi. 10 1/2" x 49". Shipping: Shipping for our Collector's Series Ethnographic Auction will be handled by our trusted Shipping Partner UPS Sto

Handspun cotton Ikat sash with reptile and ancestor motifs. Sulawesi island, Indonesia. Size: 59" x 19" (150 x 48 cm).Collected by Mr Ira marks in Indonesia in the early 1980's.

Aitos ancestral figure pole - West Timor - Indonesia Old ancestor pole (called aitòs amog Atoni tribe). This kind of statues are believed to be a medium to the world of the spirits, a mean to ask peo

Sa'dan Toraja Figure, West Central Sulawesi tau tau Wood Height 60 1/4in (153cm) Provenance David Manfredi, Milan Marian Marill Collection, Boston, acquired in 2000 Thence by descent For further info

Old ancestral figure pair -West Timor - Indonesia Mesurements: cm 55 x 10 (inches: 18" x 4") Period: middle 20th century Provenance: Indonesian collection Old pair of ancestor figures, both figures ar

A Very rare, old and interesting wooden female sculpture from the HOLO peoples of Angola, Central Africa. This is a well weathered and very old example of an ancestor shrine idol. Featuring a stylized

Carved wooden idol, with undeniable handling and wear over generations. Incredibly old and well worn miniature ancestor idol, likely from a diviners kit. Dogon peoples, mali, Africa. Measures 5.75 inc

A very fine old and elegant carved wooden female ancestor idol with a deep golden honey colored patina from handling and signs of field use and wear. Rungo peoples, a sub group related to the Tabwa pe

Weathered and abstract Old Yaka Ancestor sculpture.A carved wooden ancestor idol with stylized face, most notably the nose carved away from the face, elongated form and features. The Yaka will carve s

Nias Island Ancestor Figure, Indonesia. From an old French Oceanic collection. Size: 21'' x 6.25'' x 5.5'' (53 x 16 x 14 cm).

A very fine Old stylized kris knife handle from Sulawesi Island, Indonesia. Carved wood with a wonderful deep well handled surface patina and an elegant form. Custom mounted, the handle measures 3 inc

Carved wooden male idol with small antelope horn atop of traditional ancestor idol. Such objects were used during magic ritual as a medium to the spirit world. Adorned with glass beads and animal hide

A very old (19th century?) carved wooden effigy with a well weathered anthropomorphic form and remains of a floral design on the best, which is decayed though what remains is quite beautiful. The scul

This is a very old, weathered and eroded wood sculpture from the Ibo peoples of Nigeria, West Africa. Truly a impressive old example, and although much is lost, what remains is a powerful display of I