Creator: Guy Ritchie

Starring: Theo James, Kaya Scodelario, Daniel Ings, Joely Richardson

Production Company: Miramax Television, Moonage Pictures, Toff Guy Films

Kent Locations Used: Detling Diner, Ashford Cattle Market

Based on the 2019 film of the same name, The Gentlemen (2024) is an eight-part crime-drama series for Netflix. After the death of his father, Eddie Halstead inherits a large estate, unaware it is the front for a drug empire. With no experience in the criminal underworld, Eddie must take over the operation or lose everything.

Created by Guy Ritchie (The Man From U.N.C.L.E. (2015), Sherlock Holmes: Game of Shadows (2011)), the series stars Theo James (Divergent, Castlevania) as Eddie Halstead, Kaya Scodelario (Southcliffe (2013), True Love (2012)) as Susie Glass, Daniel Ings (I Hate Suzie, Lovesick) as Freddy Halstead and Joely Richardson (The Rook (2019), Nip/Tuck) as Lady Sabrina Halstead.

Filming took place at the Detling Diner in Maidstone, which doubled for Patty’s Service Station and at the Ashford Cattle Market.

As the county town of Kent and seat of local governance, Maidstone plays an important part in Kent’s history. The River Medway runs through Maidstone’s town centre, which is bustling with many shops, restaurants, bars, churches and a museum. Recent productions to have filmed in Maidstone include This Time with Alan Partridge Season 2 (2021), Whitstable Pearl (2021-2022) and The Last Rite (2021).

With high-speed connections to London, Ashford is a busy market town with a bustling town centre that boasts two shopping malls, vibrant cafés and pubs and a partly pedestrianised high street. The Thompsons (2012) also filmed in Ashford.

The Gentlemen (2024) was released on Netflix on Thursday 7th March 2024.

For more information about Kent’s Filming History please visit our Movie Map.

Director: Guy Ritchie

Writer: Guy Ritchie, Lionel Wigram

Stars: Alicia Vikander, Henry Cavill, Armie Hammer

Production Company: Ritchie/Wigram Productions, RatPac-Dune Entertainment, Davis Entertainment

Kent Locations Used: The Historic Dockyard Chatham

The Man From U.N.C.L.E is an action spy-fi movie set in the early 1960s during the Cold War. A mysterious criminal organization plans to use nuclear weapons and war technology to disrupt the balance of power between the United States and Soviet Union.

CIA agent, Napoleon Solo (Henry Cavill) and KGB agent, Illya Kuryakin (Armie Hammer) are forced to work together to stop the criminals in their tracks. Their only lead is the daughter of a missing German scientist who is their key to infiltrating the organisation. They must find her soon to prevent a global disaster.

Cast and crew of The Man From U.N.C.L.E. visited The Historic Dockyard Chatham for 5 days to film a chase sequence where the Historic Dockyard doubles as East Berlin. In the film, the footage shot at the Dockyard is mixed with CGI to create an incredible, fast-paced car chase.

The Dockyard has previously been transformed into France in Les Miserables (2013), Victorian London Streets in Sherlock Holmes (2009), and was HMS Gannet in The Dockyard was used in Mr Turner (2014).

The Man from U.N.C.L.E is released in cinemas August 14th 2015.

For more information about Kent’s Filming History please visit our Movie Map.

Director: Guy Ritchie

Producer: Bruce Berman

Writers: Michael Mulroney, Kieran Mulroney (Screenplay) & Arthur Conan Doyle (Novel)

Starring: Robert Downey Jr, Jude Law, Eddie Marsan, Noomi Rapace, Jared Harris & Stephen Fry

Production Company: Village Roadshow Pictures, Silver Pictures, Wigram Productions

Kent Locations Used: The Historic Dockyard Chatham, Port of Dover, White Cliffs of Dover, The Waverley Paddlesteamer, Knole & Fort Amherst

Robert Downey Jr and Jude Law revisit their roles as the great Sherlock Holmes and Dr Watson in Sherlock Holmes: Game of Shadows. When the Crown Prince of Austria is found dead, inspector Lestrade (Eddie Marsdan-Law and Order UK ) believes it to be suicide. But Holmes deduces that the prince has been a victim in a murder that is part of a larger and more elaborate plot designed by Professor Moriarty (Jared Harris- Fringe).

Holmes tracks down the clues to a gentleman’s club where he and his brother Mycroft Holmes (Stephen Fry-Alice in Wonderland) celebrate to Dr Watson’s final night of bachelorhood. There Holmes meets the mysterious fortune teller Sim (Noomi Rapace-The Girl Who kicked the Hornet’s Nest) whose unwitting involvement with the Crown Prince’s murder makes her the next target for the killer.

Sherlock Holmes: Game of Shadows was adapted by Michele Mulroney (Unlikely Hero, Sunny & Share Love You) and Kieran Mulroney (Paper Man) and directed by Guy Ritchie (Snatch, RocknRolla). Robert Downey Jr. (Iron Man, Tropic Thunder) and Jude Law (The Talented Mr. Ripley, Enemy at the Gates) return in the starring roles alongside Noomi Rapace (The Drop, Child 44), Rachel McAdams (The Notebook, Spotlight), Stephen Fry (V for Vendetta Alice in Wonderland) and Jared Harris (Lincoln, The Boxtrolls).

A number of popular Kent locations take a starring role in this latest blockbuster from director Guy Ritchie. The cast and crew returned to The Historic Dockyard Chatham where the Punchbowl Pub fight scenes and the hanging of Lord Blackwood amongst other scenes were filmed for the first movie. Eagle eyed viewers should watch the trailer below and see if they can spot the dockyards alongside the other Kent Locations! The Historic Dockyard Chatham is a popular film location, having previously featured in Rustom (2016) and Oliver Twist (2007).

The production company also visited the Port of Dover where they boarded the Waverley Paddle Steamer to film the White Cliffs of Dover. The paddle steamer was re-built in 1947 after the original was sunk off Dunkirk in 1940 and now sails around the country offering tours to the general public. The Port of Dover can be seen in Johnny English (2003) starring Rowan Atkinson and in the James Bond classic Diamonds are Forever (1971) starring Sean Connery as the location for a dramatic hovercraft scene.

National Trust Property Knole in Sevenoaks was also used, though you’ll have a hard time spotting the structure of the inner courtyard in its new Alpine setting. Adored by Henry VII and given to him by the Archbishop of Canterbury in 1538, it later was presented to the Sackville family by Elizabeth I. The house showcases stunning architecture, priceless Stuart furniture and is set at the heart of the only remaining deer park in the county. A popular film location it has appeared in Great British Railway Journeys – Series 7 (2016) and Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides (2011).

Lastly, crews took to Fort Amherst in Chatham to shoot scenes for the film. The extensive tunnels were the perfect double for the Paris sewer system. The fort is Britain’s largest Napoleonic Fortress and with an impressive network of historic buildings across 20 acres, it is becoming a firm favourite for film productions. Fort Amherst has also featured in Jekyll and Hyde (2016) and The Saint (1997). Considered one of Britain’s most haunted Forts, it is open to the public, though apparently you’ll risk meeting one of the many poltergeists and ghostly apparitions that walk there.

Sherlock Holmes: Game of Shadows was released in cinemas in December 2011 and is now available to buy on DVD.

For more information about Kent’s Filming History please visit our Movie Map.