Roanoke Times Copyright (c) 1995, Landmark Communications, Inc. DATE: SATURDAY, June 19, 1993 TAG: 9306190035 SECTION: NATIONAL/INTERNATIONAL PAGE: A-4 EDITION: METRO SOURCE: The Washington Post DATELINE: TOKYO LENGTH: Medium

JAPANESE OUST MIYAZAWA

Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa, overcome by a wave of popular outrage and party rebellion over Japan's pervasive political corruption, was swept from office Friday night as the parliament easily passed a no-confidence resolution.

With his political career on the ropes, Miyazawa will carry on as a "dead body" - Japan's blunt term for "lame duck" - prime minister until a special election late next month to pick a new parliament. He will preside in that powerless capacity when leaders of the world's major industrialized nations convene in Tokyo in three weeks for their annual summit.

The special election mandated by Friday night's vote could be a watershed for Japan's unusual system of "one-party democracy." With a sizable bloc of its members ready to bolt, the ruling Liberal Democratic Party could lose control of the government for the first time since it was founded 38 years ago.

That could make this economic superpower a less predictable U.S. ally in the future. But since Friday's crisis was fueled entirely by domestic politics, it probably will not lead to any immediate change in Japan's trade or foreign policies.

The election should be a wild one, if Friday night's debate in the Diet, or parliament, is any indication. In this land of civility and decorous language, the 90-minute debate turned into a humiliation for Miyazawa as speakers heaped scorn on him.

"I denounce him as a habitual liar!" roared one opposition leader. "When you got caught in the Recruit Co. [political payoff] scandal," another bellowed at the 73-year-old Miyazawa, "you had to change your story seven times!"

Miyazawa had to sit silently through it all, watching the proceedings with an ashen face. When the no-confidence bill passed, 255-220 with 39 members of his own party voting for it - protocol required he stand and bow to the politicians who had just thrown him out. He then walked out slowly with the opposition's shouts of "Banzai" ringing in his ears.

by CNB