Shot in Boston, “Zookeeper” is more the “Celtic Pride” of talking animal pictures than the “Mystic River.” The talented Kevin James is Griffin Keyes, lead zookeeper at Franklin Park Zoo, where the film was shot in part in 2009. In opening scenes set in the recent past, Griffin gets rejected after proposing to his girlfriend Stephanie (Leslie Bibb), who tells him she can’t marry him because he’s, you know, a zookeeper, and it “bothers” her. (Huh?)

Cut to the present. Griffin is head zookeeper at Franklin Park, and the animals love him because he is kind and empathetic. Unlike bad zookeeper Shane (Donnie Wahlberg, for some reason), who is a jerk.

With the help of on-site veterinarian Kate (Rosario Dawson), Griffin saves a lioness (voice of, yes, Cher) that has ingested a crushed can of Red Bull, a heroic act and product plug all in one. (In today’s hyper-commercialized movies, Richard Dreyfuss would have pulled a Miller Lite out of that shark instead of a Louisiana license plate.)

Griffin is especially close to Bernie (the unmistakable voice of Nick Nolte), a depressed gorilla banished to a cement cavelike enclosure after supposedly attacking Shane.

Holy “Night at the Museum,” when no one’s around, the animals all get together and talk. The giraffe (Maya Rudolph) sounds like the late, great LaWanda Page. The capuchin monkey, which is inordinately proud of its opposable thumbs, sounds like one of Adam Sandler’s lame phony voices, and it is. Zoo lion king Joe is voiced by Sylvester Stallone, and the paternal elephant is R-rated comedy genius Judd Apatow. Apatow regular Ken Jeong is also on board as a trash-talking, sex-crazed reptile wrangler. OK, but my biggest question was: Why does that monkey, which also appeared in “The Hangover Part II,” suddenly sound like Gilbert Gottfried?

Although a “code” exists forbidding talking to humans, the animals begin speaking to Griffin after he saves the lioness. It’s like seeing dead people, only it’s hearing animals.

When Griffin’s brother Dave (Nat Faxon) and fiancee Robin (Steffiana De La Cruz) announce their upcoming nuptials, Griffin wants desperately to win back Stephanie, who attends the wedding with more recent, obnoxious ex Gale (“Fear Factor’s” Joe Rogan). The animals try to help Griffin become an “alpha male” by teaching him such tricks as urinating around the area where he plans to woo her.

To prove that he’s a real friend, Griffin also takes Bernie to a T.G.I. Friday’s (again, act of kindness and product plug all in one), where the big gorilla is a big hit with the girls.

The pee-pee and poo-poo jokes fly in this deadening, dull and often unbearable dud.

James is an appealing screen presence, and the animatronic gorilla is amazing, but James’ part is all pratfall and the film is so dimwitted it’s painful. Kids will be amused by the jive-talking animals. But do they really need a “Low” duet by gorilla and zookeeper? Adults will cringe.

Directed by Frank Coraci (“The Wedding Singer,” “Click”) and written by Nick Bakay (“The King of Queens”), Rock Reuben (“The King of Queens”), Jay Scherick (“Norbit”), David Ronn (“Norbit”) and James, this “Zookeeper” belongs in a cage. Paging “Babe.”