Width

Information about the width, i.e. the horizontal side of the device when it is used in its standard orientation.

Height

Information about the height, i.e. the vertical side of the device when it is used in its standard orientation.

GSM

GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) was developed to replace the analog cellular network (1G), therefore it is referred to as a 2G mobile network. It has been improved with the addition of General Packet Radio Services (GPRS) and later via the Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution (EDGE) technology.

CDMA

CDMA (Code-Division Multiple Access) is a channel access method for communications within mobile networks. Compared to other 2G and 2.5G standards like GSM and TDMA, it provides increased data transfer speeds and allows more subscribers to connect simultaneously to the network.

UMTS

UMTS stands for Universal Mobile Telecommunications System. Based on the GSM standard, it is deemed as a 3G mobile network standard. It has been developed by the 3GPP and its major advantage is the provision of greater bandwidth and spectral efficiency, due to the W-CDMA technology.

LTE

LTE is deemed to be the fourth generation (4G) of mobile communications technology. It has been developed by the 3GPP based on the GSM/EDGE and UMTS/HSPA technologies in order to increase the speed and capacity of wireless data networks. A further development of the technology is called LTE Advanced.

5G NR

The 5G (fifth generation) mobile networks use the new radio access technology (RAT) developed by 3GPP, dubbed 5G NR and deemed as the global standard for the air interface of 5G networks. 5G NR operates in two frequency ranges - FR1 (sub-6 GHz) and FR2 (above 24 GHz). In the FR1 frequency range, the 5G mobile networks use a number of bands, some of which are traditionally used by previous standards. The FR2 provides shorter range but higher available bandwidth than bands in the FR1.

Mobile network technologies

There are several network technologies that enhance the performance of mobile networks mainly by increased data bandwidth. Information about the communication technologies supported by the device and their respective uplink and downlink bandwidth.

Process technology

Information about the process technology used in manufacturing the chip. The value in nanometers represents half the distance between elements that make up the CPU.

CPU bits

The CPU bits are determined by the bit-size of the processor registers, address buses and data buses. 64-bit CPUs provide better performance than 32-bit ones, which on their part perform better than 16-bit processors.

Instruction set

The instruction set architecture (ISA) is a set of commands used by the software to manage the CPU's work. Information about the set of instructions the processor can execute.

Level 0 cache memory (L0)

Some processors have a level 0 cache memory, which is accessed quicker than the L1, L2, L3, and so one cache memories. Besides achieving better performance, it also consumes less power.

Level 1 cache memory (L1)

The cache memory is used by the processor in order to shorten the time needed to access data and instructions that a frequently used. The L1 (level 1) cache memory has a small volume, but operates faster than the RAM and the rest cache memory levels. If the processor does not find the data needed in L1, it continues to look for it in the L2 cache memory. In some processors the search in L1 and L2 is simultaneous.

Level 2 cache memory (L2)

The L2 (level 2) cache memory is slower than L1, but has a larger capacity, instead, which allows it to cache more data. Just like L1, it is much faster than the system memory (RAM). If the CPU does not find the data needed in L2, it proceeds to look for them in the L3 cache memory (if there is such) or in the RAM.

CPU cores

A CPU core is the processor unit, which executes software instructions. Presently, besides single-core processors, there are dual-core, quad-core, hexa-core and so on multi-core processors. They increase the performance of the device allowing the execution of multiple instructions in parallel.

GPU

GPU is a graphical processing unit, which handles computation for 2D/3D graphics applications. In mobile devices GPU is usually utilized by games, UI, video playback, etc. GPU can also perform computation in applications traditionally handled by the CPU.

RAM capacity

RAM (Random-Access Memory) is used by the operating system and all installed applications. Data in the RAM is lost after the device is turned off or restarted.

Storage

Information about the capacity of the built-in storage of the device. Sometimes one and the same model may is offered in variants with different internal storage capacity.

Resolution

The display resolution shows the number of pixels on the horizontal and vertical side of the screen. The higher the resolution is, the greater the detail of the displayed content.

Pixel density

Information about the number of pixels per centimeter (ppcm) or per inch (ppi) of the display. The higher the pixel density, the more detailed and clearer is the information displayed on the screen.

Color depth

The color depth of the display is also known as bit depth. It shows the number of bits used for the color components of one pixel. Information about the maximum number of colors the screen can display.

Sensor type

Information about the sensor type of the camera. Some of the most widely used types of image sensors on mobile devices are CMOS, BSI, ISOCELL, etc.

ISO

The ISO rating or number is an indicator of how sensitive a camera's image sensor is to light. Image sensors operate within a specific ISO range. The higher the ISO rating is, the more sensitive to light the sensor is.

Aperture

The aperture (f-stop number) indicates the size of the lens diaphragm opening, which controls the amount of light reaching the image sensor. The lower the f-stop number, the larger the diaphragm opening is, hence, the more light reaches the sensor. Usually, the f-stop number specified is the one that corresponds to the maximum possible diaphragm opening.

Flash type

The rear cameras of mobile devices use mainly a LED flash. It may arrive in a single, dual- or multi-light setup and in different arrangements.

Image resolution

One of the main characteristics of the cameras is their image resolution. It states the number of pixels on the horizontal and vertical dimensions of the image, which can also be shown in megapixels that indicate the approximate number of pixels in millions.

Video FPS

Information about the maximum number of frames per second (fps) supported by the rear camera while recording video at the maximum resolution. Some of the main standard frame rates for recording and playing video are 24 fps, 25 fps, 30 fps, 60 fps.

Aperture

The aperture (f-stop number) indicates the size of the lens diaphragm opening, which controls the amount of light reaching the image sensor. The lower the f-stop number, the larger the diaphragm opening is, hence, the more light reaches the sensor. Usually, the f-stop number specified is the one that corresponds to the maximum possible diaphragm opening.

Image resolution

Information about the number of pixels on the horizontal and vertical dimensions of the photos taken by the front camera, indicated in megapixels as well.

Video FPS

Digital cameras are able to shoot videos at different frames per second (fps). Some of the main standard frame rates for recording and playing video are 24 fps, 25 fps, 30 fps, 60 fps. Information about the maximum possible fps for shooting videos at the maximum possible resolution.

Speaker

The loudspeaker is a device, which reproduces various sounds such as ring tones, alarms, music, voice calls, etc. Information about the type of speakers the device uses.

Tracking/Positioning

The tracking/positioning service is provided by various satellite navigation systems, which track the autonomous geo-spatial positioning of the device that supports them. The most common satellite navigation systems are the GPS and the GLONASS. There are also non-satellite technologies for locating mobile devices such as the Enhanced Observed Time Difference, Enhanced 911, GSM Cell ID.

Wi-Fi

Wi-Fi communication between devices is realized via the IEEE 802.11 standards. Some devices have the possibility to serve as Wi-Fi Hotspots by providing internet access for other nearby devices. Wi-Fi Direct (Wi-Fi P2P) is another useful standard that allows devices to communicate with each other without the need for wireless access point (WAP).

Features

Bluetooth uses various profiles and protocols related to faster exchange of data, energy saving, better device discoverability, etc. Some of those supported by the device are listed here.

Connector type

There are several USB connector types: the Standard one, the Mini and Micro connectors, On-The-Go connectors, etc. Type of the USB connector used by the device.

Version

There are several versions of the Universal Serial Bus (USB) standard: USB 1.0 (1996), the USB 2.0 (2000), the USB 3.0 (2008), etc. With each following version the rate of data transfer is increased.

Features

Тhe USB interface in mobile devices may be used for different purposes such as battery charging, using the device as a mass storage, host, etc.

Type

The battery type is determined by its structure and more specifically, by the chemicals used in it. There are different battery types and some of the most commonly used in mobile devices are the lithium-ion (Li-Ion) and the lithium-ion polymer battery (Li-Polymer).

2G talk time

2G talk time is the time period a battery charge will last, if one is constantly talking on the phone in a 2G cellular network.

3G talk time

3G talk time is the time period a battery charge will last, if one is constantly talking on the phone in a 3G cellular network.

3G stand-by time

3G stand-by time is the longest time a battery charge will last, if the device is not used but is constantly connected to the 3G mobile network.

Head SAR (USA)

This SAR rating shows the maximum level of exposure to electromagnetic radiation taken when the device is placed next to the ear. The applicable limit for the US is 1.6 W/kg per 1 g of tissue. In the US the FCC tests and sets the SAR limits for all mobile devices, which are controlled by the CTIA.

Body SAR (USA)

The SAR body rating shows the maximum level of exposure to electromagnetic radiation when the device is positioned against the body at the hip. The highest SAR value of mobile devices allowed in the US is set to 1.6 W/kg per 1 g of tissue. It is specified by the FCC and the CTIA follows whether the mobile devices comply with this standard.