The true face of Thérèse

It was able to make admirably good use of the equipment, altogether rudimentary, of the time and of the means of development available to it in a makeshift laboratory.

Among the 47 preserved photographs of Thérèse, Céline took 41 (all those where Thérèse wears the black veil).

Click on the pictures to enlarge them.

Please note, these photographs are not royalty free:

For any use of photos n°1 to 6, contact the archives of the Carmel of Lisieux via the Contact form ;

Pfor the photos n°7 to 47, contact the Lisieux Central Office either by email office-central@therese-de-lisieux.com or by telephone at 02.31.48.55.20.

Photo n ° 1

Therese at three and a half years old

Photo n ° 2

Thérèse at eight years old and her sister Céline

Photo n ° 3

Therese at thirteen

Photo n ° 4

Therese at fifteen

Photo n ° 5

Therese novice in coat

Photo n ° 6

Novice Thérèse without coat

Photo n ° 7

Thérèse and her sisters with Mother Marie de Gonzague on the steps of the infirmary

Photo n ° 8

Sister Geneviève near the steps of the infirmary

Photo n ° 9

Thérèse and her sisters pose with Mother Marie de Gonzague in the courtyard of Lourdes (1st posing)

Photo n ° 10

Thérèse and her sisters pose with Mother Marie de Gonzague in the courtyard of Lourdes (2rd posing)

Photo n ° 11

Therese as Joan of Arc (1st posing)

Photo n ° 12

Therese as Joan of Arc (2rd posing)

Photo n ° 13

Thérèse as Joan of Arc seated in her prison

Photo n ° 14

Thérèse in the role of Joan of Arc receives a visit from Saint Marguerite (Sister Geneviève)

Photo n ° 15

Thérèse as Joan of Arc crowned

Photo n ° 16

The Community in recreation in the alley of the chestnut trees (1st posing)

Photograph taken by Céline during recess. On the right we can see behind the trees the arbor of thehermitage of the Holy Face.

Date: April 20, 1895, Easter Saturday.

Location: Alley of the chestnut trees

From left to right : Martha of Jesus, Thérèse of Saint-Augustin behind her, Saint-Stanislas of the Saints-Hearts who moved, Mary of the Trinity, overlooked by Marie-Emmanuel, Marie de Saint-Joseph, Marie de Gonzague. Behind all this group, Thérèse et Mary of the Sacred Heart. At the table, Agnes of Jesus (Pauline), then Genevieve of the Holy Face (Céline), Marie of the Angels, Marie of Jesus on the ground, Hermance of the Heart of Jesus, Marie-Philomène of Jesus bent over her work, behind her Marie of the Incarnation, Marguerite-Marie of the Sacred Heart of Jesus, Saint- Vincent de Paul who moved and Marie-Madeleine du Saint-Sacrement.

Photo n ° 17

The Community in recreation in the alley of the chestnut trees (2rd posing)

Photograph taken by Céline during the same recess as the previous photo. You should know that each of Céline's frames contained two plates. On the right, behind the trees, we can see the arbor of the hermitage of the Holy Face.

Date: April 20, 1895, Easter Saturday.

Location: Alley of the chestnut trees

From left to right : Martha of Jesus, Thérèse of Saint-Augustin, Saint-Stanislas of the Holy Hearts who moved, Mary of the Trinity, overlooked by Marie-Emmanuel, Marie de Saint-Joseph, Marie de Gonzague. Behind all this group, Thérèse et Mary of the Sacred Heart. At the table, Agnes of Jesus (Pauline), then Genevieve of the Holy Face (Céline), Marie of the Angels, Marie of Jesus on the ground, Hermance of the Heart of Jesus hidden by the spinning wheel, Marie-Philomène of Jesus, behind her Marie of the Incarnation, Saint-Jean of the Cross leaning, Marie-Madeleine of the Blessed Sacrament, Marguerite-Marie of the Sacred Heart of Jesus who moved, Saint-Vincent de Paul.

Photo n ° 18

Community group on the courtyard steps

Photograph taken by Céline, in the courtyard. To get your bearings, the entrance to the refectory (not visible) is on the left in the photo.

Date: Easter Monday April 15, 1895

Location: Yard

1st row from left to right: Genevieve of the Holy Face (Celine), Mary of the Trinity, Mary of the Sacred Heart, Mary of the Incarnation and Mary of Jesus.

2nd row from left to right: Mother Agnes of Jesus (Paulina), Therese of the Child Jesus, Mary of the Angels and of the Sacred Heart, Saint Stanislas of the Holy Hearts, Saint Vincent de Paul, Marguerite-Marie of the Sacred Heart of Jesus.

3nd row from left to right: Mary of Saint Joseph, Marie de Gonzague, Marie-Emmanuel, Anne of the Sacred Heart (from the Carmel of Saigon), Thérèse of Jesus of the Heart of Mary, Thérèse of Saint-Augustin, Saint-Jean-Baptiste of the Heart of Jesus, Mother Hermance of the Heart of Jesus, Marthe of Jesus, Mary Philomena of Jesus, Mary Magdalene of the Blessed Sacrament.

Photo n ° 19

Community group in the courtyard of Lourdes

Photograph taken by Céline on the same day as the previous photo. You should know that each of Céline's frames contained two plates.

Date: Easter Monday April 15, 1895.

Location: Court of Lourdes

From left to right : Standing, Saint John the Baptist of the Heart of Jesus and Mary of Saint Joseph; seated on a low wall (visible in photo 20): Marie-Philomène of Jesus and Saint-Stanislas of the Saints-Hearts; standing Thérèse of Jesus of the Heart of Mary who moved, Thérèse of Saint-Augustin in front, Mary of the Sacred Heart, and seated on a low wall, Hermance of the Heart of Jesus and Saint-Vincent de Paul. In the door frame behind them: Marie de Jésus and Marie-Emmanuel. Standing Anne of the Sacred Heart (from the Carmel of Saigon) who has moved, Marie des Anges with her face partly hidden, Genevieve of the Holy Face (Celine), Agnes of Jesus (Pauline), Mary Magdalene of the Blessed Sacrament on her knees. In the window, Mary of the Trinity, Thérèse and Martha of Jesus; before, Marie de Gonzague who moved.

Photo n ° 20

Therese with the hourglass

From left to right : Mary of the Trinity, Thérèse, Mary Magdalene of the Blessed Sacrament kneeling, Martha of Jesus, Marie de Gonzague, Agnes of Jesus (Paulina), Genevieve of the Holy Face (Celine).

Photo n ° 21

The Community gathered for the feast of the Good Shepherd (1st posing)

From left to right kneeling: Mary of the Trinity, Martha of Jesus, Thérèse, Mary Magdalene of the Blessed Sacrament and Genevieve of the Holy Face (Celine).

From left to right standing: Saint-Jean-Baptiste of the Heart of Jesus, Marie-Emmanuel, Marie of the Angels, Marguerite-Marie of the Sacred Heart of Jesus, Agnes of Jesus (Pauline), behind her Marie de Saint-Joseph and Thérèse de Saint-Augustin, then further down Marie de Gonzague behind Celine, and behind her Mary of the Sacred Heart, Mary of Jesus, and Mary of the Incarnation behind. The hand on the cross, on the left Saint-Jean de la Croix and on the right Saint-Vincent de Paul, in front of it Saint-Stanislas of the Saints-Hearts, then on the right of Mary of the Sacred Heart, Hermance of the Heart of Jesus and at her Saint-Raphael side of the Heart of Mary, and behind them Thérèse of Jesus and Aimee of Jesus.

Photo n ° 22

The Community gathered for the feast of the Good Shepherd (2rd posing)

From left to right kneeling: Mary of the Trinity, Martha of Jesus, Thérèse, Mary Magdalene of the Blessed Sacrament and Genevieve of the Holy Face (Celine).

From left to right standing: Saint-Jean-Baptiste of the Heart of Jesus, Marie-Emmanuel, Marie of the Angels, Marguerite-Marie of the Sacred Heart of Jesus, Agnes of Jesus (Pauline), behind her Marie de Saint-Joseph and Thérèse de Saint-Augustin, Marie de Gonzague behind Céline, and behind her Mary of the Sacred Heart, Mary of Jesus with a very blurred face, and Mary of the Incarnation behind. To the left of the cross with the hand on it Saint-Jean de la Croix and to the right Saint-Vincent de Paul, in front of it Saint-Stanislas with a blurry and leaning face, then to the right of Mary of the Sacred Heart, Hermance of the Heart of Jesus and Saint-Raphael of the Heart of Mary, and behind them Thérèse of Jesus and on the right Aimée of Jesus, both very blurred.

Photo n ° 23

Thérèse and the novices with their Mothers for the feast of the Good Shepherd

From left to right : Marthe of Jesus, Marie de Gonzague, Marie-Madeleine of the Blessed Sacrament, Agnès of Jesus (Pauline), Geneviève of the Holy Face (Céline), Thérèse and Marie of the Trinity.

Photo n ° 24

The Community in the laundry (1st posing)

Photograph taken by Céline at the washhouse. The linen, already washed, must be rinsed; the beater is used to facilitate the maneuver. The sisters have put on their laundry aprons, after having rolled up their triple layer of sleeves.

Date: Friday, April 19, 1895.

Location: To see her, in the garden

From left to right : standing Marie-Emmanuel and Marie-Philomène, then Mary of the Trinity, Thérèse, Genevieve of the Holy Face (Céline), Martha of Jesus, Saint-Stanislas standing, Mary of Jesus, Saint-Vincent de Paul who moved, Saint-Jean-Baptiste, Marie-Madeleine, Mary of the Sacred Heart, Thérèse of Saint-Augustin, Marguerite-Marie at the bottom of the hidden face, then very leaning Marie de Saint-Joseph, then Marie of the Angels, Agnes of Jesus (Paulina), Marie de Gonzague who moved, Marie of the Incarnation.

Photo n ° 25

The Community in the laundry (2rd posing)

Photograph taken by Celine at the wash house on the same day as the previous photo, but the sisters moved in amusement.

Date: Friday April 19 1895

Location: To see her, in the garden

From left to right : Marie-Philomène, standing Thérèse of Jesus, Anne of the Sacred Heart (of the Carmel of Saigon), Marie de Gonzague, St. John of the Cross, Agnes of Jesus (Pauline), Mary of the Incarnation, Mary of the Angels, Genevieve of the Holy Face (Céline), and behind her Hermance du Coeur de Jésus. Then Saint-Jean-Baptiste, Marie-Madeleine, Marguerite-Marie and Martha of Jesus, very leaning near the water Saint-Vincent de Paul, Thérèse, in front of her Mary of the Trinity leaning and moving, Mary of the Sacred Heart, Thérèse of Saint-Augustin, Marie de Jesus leaning with a blurred face, standing Marie-Emmanuel and Saint-Stanislas with his glasses.

Photo n ° 26

Thérèse and Sister Geneviève at the foot of the cross in the courtyard

Photo n ° 27

Thérèse and Sister Marie of the Trinity at the foot of the cross in the courtyard

Photo n ° 28

Thérèse and Sister Marthe at the foot of the cross in the courtyard

Photo n ° 29

Therese standing in the courtyard

Photo n ° 30

Family group in the alley of chestnut trees (1st posing)

From left to right : standing Marie of the Sacred Heart and Geneviève of the Holy Face (Céline). Kneeling: Agnès of Jesus (Pauline) and Thérèse; at their feet Marie Guérin.

Photo n ° 31

Family group in the alley of chestnut trees (2rd posing)

From left to right : standing Marie of the Sacred Heart and Geneviève of the Holy Face (Céline). Kneeling: Agnès of Jesus (Pauline) and Thérèse; at their feet Marie Guérin.

Photo n ° 32

The novitiate and Mother Marie de Gonzague

From left to right behind: Martha of Jesus, Mary of the Sacred Heart, Mary Magdalene, Mary of the Eucharist (Marie Guérin) and Thérèse.

In the foreground: Geneviève (Céline), Marie de la Trinité and Marie de Gonzague.

Photo n ° 33

Thérèse embracing the cross in the courtyard - Community Group (1st posing)

Photograph taken by Céline in the courtyard, where the community surrounds the cross in elaborate groups.

Date: June 1896, probably before the 21

Location: Yard

Thérèse overcomes the group by surrounding the cross.

From left to right : Saint-Jean-Baptiste, behind her Martha of Jesus and Mary Magdalene. Beside her behind Thérèse of Saint-Augustin, Hermance of the Heart of Jesus in front of her and Marie de Gonzague. Leaning on the Saint Vincent de Paul arch and next to it Mary of Jesus in the background. Starting from the front, kneeling Mary of the Eucharist (Marie Guerin), Agnes of Jesus (Pauline), Mary of the Angels. Standing Marie-Philomène of Jesus and in front of her Saint-Stanislas of the Holy Hearts, perhaps seated. Beloved of Jesus standing, before her Saint Raphael of the Heart of Mary, Genevieve of the Holy Face (Celine), Mary of the Trinity and before her Marie of the Incarnation in a white veil. Mary of the Sacred Heart, Marie de Saint-Joseph and in front of her Marie-Emmanuel. In the background behind, Saint-Jean de la Croix.

Photo n ° 34

Thérèse embracing the cross in the courtyard - Community Group (2rd posing)

Photograph taken by Céline in the courtyard, second take. The community surrounds the cross. The shot is veiled in the entire bottom area.

Date: June 1896, probably before the 21

Location: Yard

Thérèse overcomes the group by surrounding the cross.

From left to right : Saint-Jean-Baptiste, behind her Martha of Jesus with her face leaning forward and Mary Magdalene. Beside her behind Thérèse of Saint-Augustin, in front of her this last Hermance of the Heart of Jesus and Marie de Gonzague. Leaning on the Saint Vincent de Paul arch and next to it Mary of Jesus seated at the bottom. Starting from the foreground, on your knees Mary of the Eucharist (Marie Guerin), Agnes of Jesus (Pauline), Mary of the Angels. Standing Marie-Philomène of Jesus and in front of her Saint-Stanislas of the Holy Hearts, perhaps seated. Beloved of Jesus standing, before her Saint Raphael of the Heart of Mary, Genevieve of the Holy Face (Celine), Mary of the Trinity and before her Marie of the Incarnation in a white veil. Mary of the Sacred Heart, Marie de Saint-Joseph and in front of her Marie-Emmanuel. In the background behind, Saint-Jean de la Croix.

Photo n ° 35

Les Foins - Community Group

Photograph taken by Céline, in the meadow in front of the monastery, along the alley of chestnut trees to the right of the photo. In the background, we see the wall separating the monastery from the Fleuriot property. The sisters rolled up their dresses as they did for heavy work.

Date: June 1896, probably before the 21st, and the same day as photos 33 and 34 because of the branch of lilies held by Saint-Jean Baptiste, which is the same as in the two previous photos. The hay was made the third week of June.

Location: Pre (in the garden)

From left to right : Therese of Saint Augustine, Mary of Jesus, Saint John of the Cross, Mary of Saint Joseph, Saint Vincent de Paul and Mary Magdalene behind her, Genevieve of the Holy Face (Celine), Mary of the Trinity, Agnes of Jesus (Pauline) and by her side Mary of the Eucharist (Marie Guerin). Standing behind Pauline we see Thérèse rather vague, Martha of Jesus, Mary of the Sacred Heart, Marie de Gonzague, Saint-Jean-Baptiste and Mary of the Angels.

Photo n ° 36

Community group near the statue of the Heart of Mary

Photograph taken by Céline, near the statue of the heart of Mary, next to the entrance to the cellars (on the right).

Date: July 1896

Location: Next to thecellar entrance

In the foreground from left to right: Hermance of the Heart of Jesus, Mary of the Angels, Marie de Gonzague, Saint-Stanislas of the Saints-Hearts, Saint-Jean-Baptiste, Marie of Saint Joseph.

Second row from left to right: Marie-Emmanuel, Therese of Saint-Augustin, Thérèse, Mary of the Trinity, Mary Philomena of Jesus who bent down, Mary of the Sacred Heart, Agnes of Jesus (Pauline), Marie de l'Incarnation, Saint-Jean de la Croix, which has moved a lot.

Back row from left to right: Mary of the Eucharist (Marie Guerin), Genevieve of the Holy Face (Céline), Martha of Jesus, Saint-Vincent de Paul, Mary Magdalene, Mary of Jesus.

Photo n ° 37

Thérèse "with the rosary"

Photo n ° 38

Thérèse "with the lily"

Photo n ° 39

Thérèse "sacristan" taken with her sisters and her cousin (1st posing)

From left to right : Marie of the Sacred Heart, Agnès of Jesus (Pauline), Geneviève of the Holy Face (Céline), Marie of the Eucharist (Marie Guérin) kneeling and Thérèse.

Photo n ° 40

Thérèse "sacristan" taken with her sisters and her cousin (2rd posing)

Photograph taken by Céline, with her sisters and her cousin, in the courtyard of the sacristy. Second pose, where the work of the sacristan and the making of altar bread are staged. Thérèse's face, leaving something to be desired according to her sisters, was scratched on the plate, then restored using an original citrate print.

Date: November 1896, before 14

Location: courtyard of the sacristy

From left to right : Marie of the Sacred Heart, Agnès of Jesus (Pauline), Geneviève of the Holy Face (Céline), Marie of the Eucharist (Marie Guérin) kneeling and Thérèse.

Photo n ° 41

Thérèse "to the images" (1st posing)

Photo n ° 42

Thérèse "to the images" (2rd posing)

Photo n ° 43

Thérèse "to the images" (3rd posing)

Photo n ° 44

The Novitiate near the cross of the courtyard

From left to right : Marie of the Eucharist (Marie Guérin), Marie-Madeleine, Thérèse, Geneviève of the Holy Face (Céline) on her knees, Marie of the very vague Trinity, and Marthe of Jesus.

Photo n ° 45

Therese sick under the cloister

Photograph taken by Céline, under the cloister of the infirmary. The entrance to Therese's infirmary is to the right of her pillows, behind the pillar.

Date: August 30, 1897

Location: infirmary cloister

Photo n ° 46

Thérèse died in the infirmary

Photo n ° 47

Thérèse died exposed to the choir

Photograph taken by Céline in the choir. In the background, you can see the door opening onto the courtyard of Lourdes and a stall. The sanctuary is at the feet of Thérèse. The text has been painted on the glass plate.

Date: 3th October, 1897