¨You know, you don't throw a whole life away just 'cause he's banged up a little.¨

Seabiscuit is one of those overly sentimental feel good movies that actually works thanks to its outstanding cast, its wonderful cinematography, its emotional score, its engaging story, and a horse with a piercing glance that can melt the hardest of hearts. The horse, Seabiscuit, doesn't actually make an appearance until at least an hour into the movie, but director Gary Ross does an impressive job of setting up the characters and establishing the setting. The narration works extremely well (and believe me it usually doesn't in crowd pleasing films like this) and the tone is set very early on in the story. The characters…

I have a family portrait framed of the last day we were a family. It's one of those Old West yee-haw get ups. My mother dressed like a madame, my dad the sheriff, my sister a prostitute, and I was a bandit. My mother and sister have the biggest smiles, which for my sister was no small feat. She was on better picture-taking behavior, I suppose, because there was a professional behind the lense and not our mother. I would describe myself as trying to stay in character with a sly smolder. It was probably the first time my moustache was full and not thin and it gave me a little more confidence that had escaped me in life til…

Seabiscuit is fine for what it is, a standard early 2000s drama made with mass appeal. For a movie that clocks in at almost two and a half hour and is just about a racehorse, Seabiscuit is surprisingly not boring and occasionally very compelling. However the film is also cheesy and without much of a story to tell, so it often becomes just about business decisions and inconsequential moments in time. It also has a very patronising voiceover, used to explain basic historical context. In the film's worst moment, the voiceover tells us that public programs didn't help the poor in the 1930s, people actually just suddenly felt restored, implied to be because of these inspirational stories of men and…

Seabiscuit (2003) (#50 on AFI's List of 100 Best Inspirational Films of All Time list): 3.5 out of 5 stars - I was disappointed to read that this was only "loosely based" on a true story. That kinda ruins the some of the "inspirational" aspect of the film.

It is still a fun film. Overly dramatized, overly sappy, but still fun. The race scenes are eagerly energized and still create sweaty palms. (My palms, not the horse's palms).

While the races were exciting, the rest of the film drags a little at times. I'm sure it's to build up the drama for the races, but it's a little droopy.

The performances were decent, Jeff Bridges being the best, of course.…