Before the start of the skateboarding events at the Place de la Concorde, the 61-year-old Frenchman, a legend of this rebellious sport and head of the Etnies brand, discusses the place in the Olympic Games of a discipline accompanied by a strong popular culture.

61 years old and with the look of an eternal teenager. Cap screwed on his head, hoodie and skateboard in hand, or more often under his feet. Pierre André Senizergues is a legend of skateboarding, a street discipline, rebellious, but which entered the fold of Olympic sports in Tokyo in 2020. The debate has agitated the purists: has skateboarding not lost its soul by entering the Olympic Games? “Skaters who go to the Olympics are kind of stuck between two chairs, he agrees. They wonder if it’s really cool. In general, the skater is independent, he does his tricks, there are no teams. Skateboarding is very much in the street and not really in stadiums.”

Many, however, saw it as a logical evolution, with several competitions already existing, such as the X Games or the Street League Skateboarding (SLS). This year, urban sports will be highlighted at Place de la Concorde. Quite a spotlight. “The skate and BMX events will take place on the most famous square in Paris. It will be a magnificent postcard for our sport. The whole skate culture in the broad sense (skate lessons, music, street art) will be highlighted,” appreciates the Frenchman from L’Haÿ-les-Roses, in Val-de-Marne.

When it was announced that the Games were going to be held in Paris, I thought I had to explain a little bit how things happen.

Pierre André Senizergues

For Pierre André Senizergues, this choice of the Concorde inevitably evokes excellent memories. It was right next door, on Place du Trocadero, a stone’s throw away, that he began to shine on his board in 1977. When he learned that the Olympic Games were going to be held in Paris, he logically approached Tony Estanguet and the organizing committee to provide his insight and give some advice.

Read alsoSkateboarding: rules, origin and vocabulary

“I got in touch with Tony who had come to Los Angeles. I talked with him and people from Los Angeles 2028. I insisted on the fact that we had to respect the culture of skateboarding. I insisted on this cultural dimension, in the broad sense,” tell the Figaro the one who, thanks to his devouring passion, was able to meet the Beastie Boys, the Red Hot Chili Peppers, the actor Joaquin Phoenix (“who skates well”), former pro turned actor Jason Lee, and director Spike Jonze, who started out as a youngster taking photos and videos of skateboarding.

And to continue: “Tony told me that he hired Stéphane Larance to take care of the skate park. He’s a friend, we skate together in Paris. He was one of the best French skaters of the 1990s-2000s. He’s the manager of the skate park. He hired the same skate park builders that I hired when I created the Etnies skate park in Lake Forest where I live in California.” Because if he started out by shining on a board, Pierre André Senizergues has since become a must-see across the Atlantic by becoming the boss of the Etnies brand, which notably produces “skate shoes made by skaters.”

Read alsoMathias Malzieu, from the group Dionysos: “Skaters bring poetry and tenderness”

Just after the Olympic debut of skateboarding in Japan, the Frenchman organized, in collaboration with Red Bull, a major and notable event at the foot of the Eiffel Tower. “I thought we had to launch things in Paris and show what it could look like. So we organized this competition for the 35th anniversary of our brand, just after Tokyo in 2020. We did it in front of the Eiffel Tower and it worked really well. We had reproduced the monuments of the capital. It was a good way to prepare for the Olympics in Paris.”

The Red Bull Paris Conquest event in August 2021 in Paris.

Federico Pestellini / Panoramic

And to tell: “When it was announced that the Games were going to be held in Paris, I thought I had to explain a little bit how things work. That we do the Games the right way with skateboarding, that it be authentic otherwise the skaters weren’t going to buy in. They have a certain form of integrity, they weren’t going to change direction.”

Aurélien Giraud does huge figures, he actually flies! He defies gravity

Pierre André Senizergues

For these Games, Senizergues and Etnies are equipping France’s greatest hope for a medal, Aurélien Giraud. His eyes light up as soon as he talks about the skater from Lyon. “Aurélien does huge figures, he actually flies! He defies gravity.” Especially for him, Etnies has created a shoe capable of absorbing the enormous shocks upon landing. “We did biomechanics studies to see the impact on the feet and improve cushioning.”he emphasizes.

“When you’re standing, the impact is one time your body weight. When you run, the impact can be three times your body weight. A basketball player who dunks, it’s seven times your body weight, and when a skateboarder jumps 20 steps, it’s 17 times your body weight! Studies existed for running or basketball, but not for skateboarding.”explains the French skateboarding legend, who was crowned world champion in the 1980s. To create this special shoe, Etnies hired Michelin to provide a particularly durable, absorbent and flexible rubber sole.

“One pair bought, one tree planted”

“Our sole diffuses the impact, a bit like a bulletproof vest. It grips more, like a tire. And it is more resistant, it lasts 4 to 5 times longer.”image the Frenchman who has made sustainable development one of the pillars of his company, which works with a maximum of recycled products. He did not hesitate, moreover, to launch the operation “one pair bought, one tree planted” which had allowed 37,000 trees to be planted in Costa Rica during the first year, before the operation was extended to Brazil and then to Africa.

Having lived in the United States for a long time, he regrets that the facilities for skateboarding are not sufficiently developed in the French capital. “Paris lacks indoor facilities, he laments. It’s a bit of an aberration. The French skaters who participate in the Games don’t come from Paris…” But they hope to shine there.