Clerks - Berserker

Jay uses Silent Bob's Russian cousin, a would-be metal singer, to impress girls. In this scene: Jay (Jason Mewes), Silent Bob (Kevin Smith)

Clerks - Cancer Merchant

An angry customer gives a rousing anti-smoking speech, but it turns out, his motives aren't as pure as they seem. In this scene: Dante (Brian O'Halloran), Veronica (Marilyn Ghigliotti)

Clerks - Dead Weight

Randal, in his own blaseway, breaks some bad news about an ex-girlfriend to Dante. In this scene: Dante (Brian O'Halloran), Randal (Jeff Anderson)

Clerks - Death's Door

Randal and Dante close the shop to visit a funeral home for an ex-girlfriend's wake, with toe-curling results. In this scene: Dante (Brian O'Halloran), Randal (Jeff Anderson)

Clerks - Down Endings

Dante and Randal discuss which Star Wars film they think had the better ending, with a little help from a local roofer. In this scene: Randal (Jeff Anderson), Dante (Brian O'Halloran), Jay (Jason Mewes)

Clerks - Number 37

Dante and Veronica have a blow-out fight over each other's past sexual relations. In this scene: Veronica (Marilyn Ghigliotti), Dante (Brian O'Halloran)

Clerks - Official Trailer (HD)

It's one wild day in the life of a pair of overworked counter jockeys, whose razor-sharp wit and on-the-job antics give a whole new meaning to customer service. Even while braving a nonstop parade of unpredictable shoppers, the clerks manage to play hockey on the roof, visit a funeral home and straighten out their offbeat love lives. The boss is nowhere in sight, so you can bet anything can and will happen when these guys are left to run the store. Starring, in alphabetical order: Brian O'Halloran, Jason Mewes, Jeff Anderson, Kevin Smith, Marilyn Ghigliotti

Clerks - Puck You

In an attempt to liberate themselves from the constraints of their mundane work, the clerks stage a hockey game on the roof. In this scene: Dante (Brian O'Halloran), Jay (Jason Mewes)

Clerks - Shell Shock

Dante and Randal observe the strange behavior of a man in search of the perfect egg. In this scene: Dante (Brian O'Halloran), Randal (Jeff Anderson)

Clerks - Stupid Questions

Randal encourages Dante to take out some of his frustrations on annoying customers. In this scene: Dante (Brian O'Halloran), Randal (Jeff Anderson), Veronica (Marilyn Ghigliotti)

Clerks - VIdeo Rental Blues

Late for work (again), Randal impersonates a customer that spars with an actual waiting patron. In this scene: Randal (Jeff Anderson), Dante (Brian O'Halloran)

Clerks - You Buckle Like a Belt

Dante is pissed when he finds out he has to work all day, but, ever the pushover, he accepts his duty. In this scene: Dante (Brian O'Halloran), Randal (Jeff Anderson)

Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back - Hitchhiking

As they begin to hitchhike to Hollywood, the guys run across a few road bumps, and one big distraction. In this scene: Jay (Jason Mewes), Silent Bob (Kevin Smith), Nun (Carrie Fisher), Justice (Shannon Elizabeth)

Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back - Hollywood Shockwave

Jay and Bob finally make it to Hollywood, and Miramax studios. In this scene: Federal Wildlife Marshal Willenholly (Will Ferrell), Jay (Jason Mewes), Silent Bob (Kevin Smith), Justice (Shannon Elizabeth)

Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back - Patsy

The girls convince Jay and Bob to help them pull off their big heist. In this scene: Justice (Shannon Elizabeth), Chrissy (Ali Larter), Jay (Jason Mewes), Silent Bob (Kevin Smith)

Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back - Quick Stop

Jay and Silent Bob take their drug-dealing, prankster ways too far and lose their spot in front of the Quick Stop. In this scene: Jay (Jason Mewes), Silent Bob (Kevin Smith), Randal Graves (Jeff Anderson), Dante Hicks (Brian O'Halloran)

Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back - Terrorists & Super Monkeys

The authorities discover a taped confession that's about to give a clueless Jay and Bob even bigger problems. In this scene: Federal Wildlife Marshal Willenholly (Will Ferrell), Jay (Jason Mewes), Silent Bob (Kevin Smith), Reg Hartner (Jon Stewart), Randal Graves (Jeff Anderson), Dante Hicks (Brian O'Halloran), Holden McNeil (Ben Affleck)

Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back - The Heist

While Jay and Bob are off stealing the monkey, the catsuit clad girls go on their own secret mission. In this scene: Jay (Jason Mewes), Silent Bob (Kevin Smith), Chrissy (Ali Larter), Justice (Shannon Elizabeth)

Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back - The Sweet Escape

Jay and Silent Bob land gigs as extras in the Good Will Hunting sequel. In this scene: Jay (Jason Mewes), Silent Bob (Kevin Smith), Ben Affleck (Ben Affleck), Matt Damon (Matt Damon), Scott William Winters (Scott William Winters), Gus Van Sant (Gus Van Sant), Miramax Security Guard Gordon (Diedrich Bader), Shannen Doherty (Shannen Doherty)

Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back - Trouser Snake

The guys hitch a ride with a van full of hot girls, and Jay gets a little too excited about hitting it off with one of them. In this scene: Chrissy (Ali Larter), Jay (Jason Mewes), Silent Bob (Kevin Smith), Justice (Shannon Elizabeth)