Three outstanding scientists from the University of St Andrews have been elected Fellows of The Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE).

The awards, presented to over 60 eminent individuals who have made an outstanding contribution to their field and achievement in public service, were announced today. The Royal Society of Edinburgh is ‘Scotland’s National Academy’, which draws upon the expertise of its multidisciplinary fellowship of men and women of international standing, to provide independent, expert advice to key decision-making bodies, including Government and Parliament.

The three St Andrews Professors have been elected Ordinary Fellows, an award granted to individuals of national and international standing, based on quality of innovative contributions to their field, or professional standing and achievement in public service.

They are: Professor John Irvine, Professor of Inorganic Chemistry; Professor James Naismith, Professor of Chemical Biology and Professor Garry Taylor, Professor of Molecular Biophysics and Director of the Centre for Biomolecular Sciences.

Accouncing the awards, the President of The Royal Society of Edinburgh, Lord Sutherland of Houndwood said:

“Whether household names or mainly admired within their own speciality, all of the individuals elected to Fellowship are united in having reached an outstanding level of achievement in their fields. We recognise and celebrate their hard work, dedication and success. The RSE will be seeking to harness their wisdom, experience and energy to help deliver the aims of the Society and in turn to be of further public benefit to Scotland.”

ENDS

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION ON THE RSE AWARDS CONTACT:

Stuart Brown, PR & Communications Manager, The Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) – Tel. 0131 240 5016; 077 11 710 249 or email [email protected].

Issued by Beattie Media On behalf of the University of St Andrews Contact Gayle Cook, Press Officer on 01334 467227 / 462529, mobile 07900 050 103, or email gec3@st- andrews.ac.uk Ref: rse fellows 100305.doc View the latest University press releases at http://www.st- andrews.ac.uk

Category University news