You might not be familiar with the name Christopher Allen Hackman but you have probably heard of the famous Hollywood star Gene Hackman. Christopher is an American celebrity child best known for being Gene Hackman's son. However, unlike his father, a household name, the younger Hackman has stayed out of the limelight.

Christopher Allen Hackman has been the subject of public curiosity. So, what is in his biography? Is he married? Does he have children? What does he do for a living?

Christopher Allen Hackman's profile summary

Name Christopher Allen Hackman Gender MaleDate of birth September 2, 1960 Zodiac sign Virgo Place of birth Los Angeles, California, U.S.AAge 62 (at her death)Nationality American Ethnicity Caucasian (with Italian, Dutch, Scottish, and English roots)Sexuality Straight Hair colour Light brown Eye colour Brown Height in feet 5' 6''Height in centimetres 167Parents Gene Hackman and Faye Maltese HackmanSiblings 2 (Elizabeth Jean and Leslie Anne Hackman)Marital status Married (Marian Ann Hackman -1995 to date)Profession Computer programmer, camera operator

Early life

Christopher Allen Hackman was born in Los Angeles, Californian, USA on September 2 1960, making him 62 years old (as of 2022). He is the son of Gene Hackman and Faye Maltese. His father is a military veteran who served in the United States Marine Corps.

After he retired from the military, he pursued a career in acting, becoming one of the most recognized names in Hollywood. The older Hackman is mostly famous for playing the role of Jimmy Popeye Doyle in the 1971 classic film, The French Connection. However, he has also starred in other films such as:

The Conversation (1972)

Superman (1978)

Crimson Tide (1995)

Behind Enemy Lines (2001)

Christopher Hackman's mother, on the other hand, was a bank secretary. His parents met in 1955 at a dance in New York and were married a year later. Their relationship lasted for three decades before the couple got a divorce in 1986.

After splitting up, Gene remarried in 1991 (Betsy Arakawa), and the couple is still together as of 2022. His ex-wife never remarried and instead led a quiet life in Beverly Hills, Los Angeles, until her death from a stroke in 2017.

Christopher has two younger siblings, Elizabeth Jean Hackman (born 1962) and Leslie Anne Hackman (born 1966). They were mostly raised by their mother, with their father spending a lot of time travelling or on movie sets due to his career.

Gene Hackman even blames these long periods he spent away from his family for his marriage breaking apart. However, after retiring from acting, he reconnected with Christopher and his siblings, and the family is now very close.

Career

Christopher Allen Hackman is a computer programmer who used to write software programs. However, he is also an aspiring filmmaker who followed in his father's footsteps by joining the entertainment industry.

He did not become a famous actor like his father. Instead, he has worked behind the scenes as a camera assistant and operator on projects such as:

Best Shot (1986)

Made In U.S.A (1987)

Chris & Don: A Love Story (2007)

Christopher Hackman is not the only Gene Hackman's child who tried to follow in his footsteps. In a 2000 interview, the Hollywood actor revealed that his daughters also worked in the entertainment industry, one in broadcasting and the other as a scriptwriter.

Husband and children

Is Christopher Allen Hackman married? Does he have any children? Despite being a celebrity child, Christopher is private and has revealed little about his dating life. He is married to Marian Ann Hackman. Not much is known about his wife besides that she is a 51-year-old Los Angeles native.

The two tied the knot in 1995 in Los Angeles and have been together since then. In an interview, Gene Hackman has revealed he is close to his children and grandchildren. But unfortunately, due to the family's secretive nature, there is no information about the grandkids.

Christopher Allen Hackman's net worth

Gene Hackman’s son has not revealed any information about his net worth. However, he has enjoyed a life of luxury, thanks to his father’s successful career. As of 2022, he (Gene Hackman) is worth an estimated $80 million.

Where is Christopher Allen Hackman today?

There is little information about his current whereabouts. However, the last updates have him still married to Marian Ann Hackman and living in Los Angeles. Christopher is also close to his father and regularly visits him in his Santa Fe, New Mexico home.

Christopher Allen Hackman's quick facts

How old is Christopher Allen Hackman? Christopher Hackman was born on September 2, 1960. He is 62 years old (as of 2022).

Are Gene Hackman and Christopher Allen Hackman related? Yes, Christopher Allen Hackman is Gene Hackman's son from his first wife, Faye Maltese Hackman. He has two younger sisters, Elizabeth and Leslie Hackman.

What is Christopher Allen Hackman’s ethnicity? Christopher Hackman is of Caucasian ethnicity but with mixed ancestry. He has Italian heritage from his mother's side and Dutch, Scottish, and English ancestry from his father.

Is Christopher Allen Hackman married? Yes, Christopher Allen Hackman is married to Marian Ann Hackman. The two tied the knot in 1995 and are still together (as of 2022).

What does Christopher Allen Hackman do for a living? Christopher Hackman is a computer programmer who writes software. Additionally, he is a budding filmmaker who has worked on a few projects as a camera operator.

Where is Christopher Allen Hackman now? Gene Hackman’s son lives with his wife (and possibly children) in Los Angeles.

Where is Christopher Allen Hackman’s father now? Gene Hackman retired from acting in 2004. After that, he took up a career as a novelist, publishing several books until 2013. Currently, he lives with his wife, Betsy Arakawa, in Santa Fe, New Mexico.

What happened to Christopher Allen Hackman’s mother? Gene Hackman's first wife, Faye Maltese Hackman, passed away in 2017. According to her obituary, she died from a stroke.

Christopher Allen Hackman is Gene Hackman’s firstborn and the only son between him and his first wife, Faye Maltese Hackman. The younger Hackman is famous due to his father's stardom status as one of Hollywood's top actors of all time. However, unlike his father, who has been in the public limelight for decades, Christopher Hackman has largely kept a very low profile, with very few public appearances and no visible social media presence.

Tuko.co.ke shared an article about the talented American actor and writer, Cory Hart. He is famously known for starring Detective Randall Green in Queen of the South. His other film roles include Homeland, and Fear of the Walking Dead.

Cory is known for his unmatched excellence in different movies and TV shows. Through hard work, he has accumulated a huge sum of money. However, he keeps his personal life away from the public’s attention.

Source: TUKO.co.ke