By: Cory Utsey

The genre of rhythm of blues, also known as R&B, has remained a staple in the Black community since it first took roots in the 1940s.

As a culmination of blues-inspired music, fast-paced rhythm, jazz, and light-hearted lyrical content, these songs hold the power to take listeners through a euphoric ride full of love, life, and redemption.

The term “rhythm and blues” was coined by music journalist Gerald “Jerry” Wexler in an attempt to replace the then-popular phrase “race music”, which was labeled offensive, while also marketing this new sound that had become popular in Black circles.

As the genre began to be associated with Black adolescence and late-night club scenes in the 1950s, it started to be seen as low-quality in comparison to Jazz music, which was regarded as a more refined form of Black expression. However, as R&B began to incorporate funk and soul, along with relatable lyrics about love, it was seen as more of an umbrella term for contemporary Black expression.

Nowadays, R&B and each of its sub-genres are easily accessible and highly revered-- especially alternative R&B.

Alternative R&B, which is at times referred to as Indie R&B, is a style of music that originated in the late 2000s, and it draws inspiration from its sister-genre of contemporary R&B.

Contemporary R&B combines elements of traditional R&B with lush, disco-like production and a distinct rhythm that is reminiscent of early hip-hop. It is best represented by artists such as Beyonce, Michael and Janet Jackson, and Usher.

Alternative R&B, on the other hand, takes some of those same attributes that are found in contemporary and traditional R&B, and fuses them with more prominent bass and vocals that almost feel like an echo.

As a versatile style of music, no two artists sound the same.

The airy, angel-like voices of singers like Brent Faiyaz or SZA can reel you in as they talk about toxic love and heartbreak, while Leven Kali and Syd might make you feel like you are seated on a cloud, so long as you tell them what you like. Solange might facilitate Black pride while providing a haven for different aspects of the Black experience, while Xavier Omar and Lucky Daye might have you aching for that “Old School” love.

The subject matter varies from love and sex, to spiritual anecdotes and commentary on what is going on in the world.

If music has been a canvas for the expression of our pain, our joy, and our love, then alternative R&B is an abstract painting of our resilience and ability to transform.

Alternative R&B is the sister, the cousin and the love-child of the many different genres in which Black people have made a mark, and it is undoubtedly one of the most dynamic genres to top the charts in today’s day and age. It is a love letter to Black creativity and Black culture.