TREKTODAY.COM - View Archives: February 2000

News headlines from February 2000:

Saturday February 26, 2000

David E. Sluss Community Profile

Christian (8:19 pm CST)

After an absence of more than half a year, we've finally been able to relaunch one of the most exciting features at the Trek Nation - the Community Profile! In this (hopefully weekly) series of interviews, Sebastian Lorenz will be interviewing leading figures from the online Trek world, so that you will be able to find out precisely who are behind all those Trek sites you visit so often. To kick off the new series of profiles, Sebastian has interviewed David E. Sluss, episode reviewer at the Cynics Corner. Below are a few snippets from the interview:

Sebastian: You are writing your "Voyager" reviews on a weekly basis (if we leave out reruns and summer repeats). How much time does it take you to get the worst out of each episode? ;)

David: I watch each episode twice; usually the first time I just watch and occasionally take notes, while the second time i take fairly extensive notes that become the basis for my items of the week. When I sit down write a review, it takes, on average, two to three hours to complete. It's a lot easier now that DS9 is gone, especially since I have a lot less free time now than in past seasons.

Sebastian: Do you actually like "Voyager" and all the other shows you're reviewing?

David: Sometimes. I always felt that DS9 was worth watching, though it kind of came apart at the seams in its last two seasons, which was when I reviewed it. DS9 had its share of unwatchable dreck, but each season had shows ranging from decent to the occasionally brilliant. I almost feel that I watch Voyager out of a sense of inertia more than anything. Unfortunately, Voyager disappoints more often than not. Sad to say, I usually enjoy shredding the episodes more than watching them. The only other shows I've reviewed up to this point are a few episodes of "Babylon 5" and "The X-Files." I was never a hardcore B5 fan, though a number of episodes are outstanding. I used to enjoy "X- Files" quite a bit, but it hasn't been good in years. That's another show that I watch out of habit and for the occasional good episode. For what it's worth, my favorite show is not a show I review, nor is it SF: "Law & Order."

Read lots more about Sluss in the full interview, where he talks about everything from reader feedback to his favourite sites to German beer.

The Cynic To Quit?

Christian (8:18 pm CST)

And of course right after we completed our first Community Profile with him. David E. Sluss at the Cynics Corner has put up his review of 'Spirit Folk', along with the following rather startling post:

Gentle reader, you came very close to losing your beloved Cynic as a reviewer this week, as I was about this close to quitting Voyager for good as a result of the "Spirit Folk" travesty, on top of so many others. At this point, just barely, I enjoy writing and discussing these weekly hatchet jobs enough to justify subjecting myself to the show week in and week out, but if there's much more shit of this sort in the remainder of the season, there's a good chance I'll be bailing out after the Sixth Season Summary. Stay tuned (or better yet, in Voyager's case, don't).

Not surprisingly, in his actual review 'Spirit Folk' is awarded the title of worst Star Trek episode ever made. Let's hope the quality of the episodes will improve somewhat for the final part of the season - I'd hate to see the Cynic go.

Tim Russ To Release Album

Christian (8:18 pm CST)

GNP Crescendo, the company responsible for the Star Trek soundtrack CDs, is reporting the following:

Tim Russ (Tuvok of Star Trek Voyager) is completing his first full-length album to be released in March, 2000. It features material from Robert Johnson, Randy Newman, and Tim himself. Neil Norman is producing with his Cosmic Orchestra providing backup.

Thanks go out to Gustavo Leao for this!

Wolfe Talks 'Andromeda'

Christian (8:18 pm CST)

On Usenet, series executive producer Robert Hewitt Wolfe just posted a whole bunch of new information about 'Andromeda', the upcoming SF series based on Gene Roddenberry's work. He mentioned that four scripts have already been completed for the series, with another five stories currently being worked on. Below you'll find a list of the current titles of the first nine episodes, plus the episodes' writers:

'Under The Night' - Robert Hewitt Wolfe

'An Affirming Flame' - Robert Hewitt Wolfe

'The Pearls That Were His Eyes' - Ethlie Ann Vare

'Double Helix' - Matt Kiene & Joe Reinkemeyer

'A Rose In The Ashes' - Ethlie Ann Vare

'Angel Dark, Demon Bright' - Robert Hewitt Wolfe

'To Loose The Fateful Lightning' - Matt Kiene & Joe Reinkemeyer

'D Minus Zero' - Ashley Miller & Zack Stentz

'We The People' - To Be Decided

Though the scripts are written by different people, Wolfe noted that the episodes are first developed during group story breaks, after which the writers go to write their scripts, which is similar to how episodes were developed on DS9. 'Under The Night' and 'An Affirming Flame' are actually a two-part episode, offering an introduction to the series. All other episodes currently in existence are standalone episodes, though they will also contribute to the overall story of the show. Here are Wolfe's thoughts on how similar to DS9's handling of a story arc 'Andromea' will be:

Similar. Probably less arc than DS9 due to the fact that we'll be on a ship so there will be less of an opportunity for characters to recurr with the regularity of, say, Rom or Eddington (or Weyoun for that matter).

As for the "arc," personally I have no idea how this show is going to end. I don't even want to know at this stage. I want to see how it evolves. Follow the characters and the premise and see where it takes us. All I can promise is that we'll do everything we can to make it a great ride.

'Andromeda' will begin shooting in May, and will premiere on US television in Fall. Thanks go out to Michael Hinman for the pointer.

'Good Shepherd' Spoilers

Christian (8:18 pm CST)

NOTE: Below you will find spoilers for 'Good Shepherd', an upcoming Voyager show. Click here to avoid these.

Again, this is where you need to click to avoid being spoiled.

This has actually been up for a few days already, but unfortunately I forgot to mention it here yet. Michael Iversen at the Universe has posted the following summary for 'Good Shepherd':

Janeway discovers that there are three 'outcasts' on her ship that have never been on an away mission, and who have fallen through the cracks as far as receiving her 'personal attention. To fix this, she forces the 3 of them to accompany her on an away mission with the Delta Flyer to investigate a newly forming star cluster (or something). But they are attacked by some unseen force/alien, who beams one of the crew members off the Flyer, and actually enters his body. When the crewman goes right through a force field and claims he is not in control of his body, Janeway shoots him. When he is hit with a phaser blast, it forces the creature out, where another panicing crewman kills it. The alien should look like a sort of 'walking stick' looking insect thing.

'Good Shepherd' will air on the 15th of March. It is not, as was previously reported, the episode featuring the return of Kes - that one is titled 'Fury'.

'Elite Force' Comic Preview

Christian (8:17 pm CST)

Over on Raven's official Voyager: Elite Force site, they've put up a six-page preview of Wildstorm's upcoming comic based on the game, showing some rough artwork. You can find the preview here. Thanks go out to Evil Avatar for the link!

Section 31 Book Info

Christian (8:17 pm CST)

David Henderson just made an update to Psi Phi's Star Trek Book Database, including an announcement by Trek novel editor Marco Palmieri about the upcoming Section 31 novel series. Here are the titles and authors of the four books, scheduled to be released in June and July of 2001:

Book One (TOS): "Cloak" by S.D. Perry

Book Two (TNG): "Rogue" by Andy Mangels and Michael A. Martin

Book Three (VGR): "Shadow" by Dean Wesley Smith and Kristine Kathryn Rusch

Book Four (DS9): "Firewall" by David Weddle

More information about the books and their authors can be found in the full announcement. Also online now at the Book Database is the back cover description of the Deep Space Nine Companion, by Terry J. Erdmann with Paula M. Block.

New Sev Trek Cartoon

Christian (8:16 pm CST)

Star Trek Communicator Site Opens

Christian (8:16 pm CST)

It appears that the official Star Trek Communicator has just opened an official web site, offering fans the opportunity to subscribe to the magazine or to buy Trek merchandise. You can find the site by following this link. Thanks go out to TrekWeb for this!

9 New 'Klingon Academy' Shots

Christian (8:15 pm CST)

Over at Interplay's official site, they've posted nine new screenshots of 'Klingon Academy', Interplay's upcoming space simulator. Furthermore, in a post to the game's discussion forums, Interplay has announced the demo will probably be released somewhere between Monday and Wednesday. Thanks go out to Blue's News for this!

Jammer's 'Collective' Review

Christian (8:15 pm CST)

Over at Star Trek: Hypertext, Jamahl Epsicokhan has put up his review of 'Collective', last week's Voyager episode. Awarding the episode 2.5 stars, Jamahl wonders if the Borg have perhaps been a little over-used in the past few years. He also talks about the episode itself, though, as you can see from the below conclusion:

Bottom line for "Collective": The general theme here that examines drones hanging with uncertain self-identities was done in fifth season's "Drone" (and to a lesser extent in this season's "Survival Instinct")--and I assure you it was done with much greater insight. "Collective" is reasonable, but it probably works best as stage setting. Now let's just hope the players actually decide to show up.

Click here for a more detailed analysis.

Mulgrew In Political Spot

Christian (8:15 pm CST)

Michell Erica Green at AnotherUniverse's Daily Buzz is reporting about a new TV spot featuring Kate Mulgrew, which was created for the Congress elections in Ohio. Two of the candidates are the Republican James A. Traficant, who often uses the plea 'Beam Me Up' when making complaints before Congress, and the Democrat Robert Hagan, Mulgrew's brother-in-law. In the TV spot, Mulgrew voices her support for Hagan:

Mulgrew cut a 30 second TV spot currently airing in Ohio, written by Mulgrew's husband, former Cuyahoga County Commissioner Tim Hagan, the candidate's brother. Dressed in a Starfleet uniform and standing on the Voyager set, Mulgrew describes herself as a "loyal Democrat" and says she's not impressed by Traficant.

"Traficant thinks it's cute to say 'Beam me up, Scotty,' on the floor of Congress. Sen. Hagan thinks educating our children, protecting our seniors, and fighting for jobs for the valley is why we elect a congressman. Hagan is right. Vote Bobby Hagan in and beam Traficant out. Just do it," she says in the ad.

The original news bit can be found here.

Beta Test 'Armada'

Christian (8:15 pm CST)

Over on the official 'Star Trek: Armada' site, Activision just announced the following:

I know many of you doubted it would ever come but we are finally ready to have signups for the single player beta test. Signups will occur on Monday February 28. The test will have 100 slots divided evenly between each of our partner sites, www.cdmag.com, www.dailyradar.com, www.gamecenter.com, www.gamespot.com and www.ign.com.

Each site will post a signup page on Monday the 28th and 20 testers will be randomly selected from each site's list. This means that if you signup on more than one site you do increase your chances of getting in. Those people who are selected to test will be contacted sometime during the week of February 28th.

To clarify, there will be no preference for or against current multiplayer betatesters.

You can find the original post on this here. Thanks go out to Blue's News for this!

Stewart Amnesty Scholarschip Article

Christian (8:15 pm CST)

Erik Syverson of Michigan's The State News has written an article about Amnesty International's 'Patrick Stewart Human Rights Scholarship', which is presented for the fifth time this year. The scholarship, sponsored by Patrick Stewart (Jean-Luc Picard), is offered to "any youth displaying a strong commitment to human rights work." You can read more on the scholarship in the actual article.

Happy Birthday!

Christian (8:14 pm CST)

Today is the 37th birthday of Chase Masterson, who had a recurring role on DS9 as Leeta.

Today On TV

Christian (8:14 pm CST)

-On Sunday in the United States, the Sci-Fi Channel will be showing the superb Original Series episode 'The City On The Edge Of Forever' at 11:00am Eastern Time.

-On Sunday in Canada, Space! will be showing the Original Series' 'The Tholian Web' at 10:00am Eastern Time.

-On Sunday in the United Kingdom, Sky One will be showing DS9's 'Destiny' at 16:00 GMT, while BBC Two will be showing Voyager's 'Timless' at 18:45 GMT.

-On Sunday here in The Netherlands, RTL 5 will be showing DS9's 'Body Parts' at 17:50 CET.

-On Sunday in Belgium, Kanaal 2 will be showing DS9's 'Call To Arms' at 18:05 CET. Thanks go out to StarTrek.nl for these last two items.

Trek BBS Today

Christian (8:14 pm CST)

Below are some of the topics currently being discussed at the Trek BBS:

-How many actor autographs do you have?

-Please welcome the new co-moderator of the Voyager forum!

Find more topics at the Trek BBS!

Hello World!

Christian (8:14 pm CST)

Hello, Spring! It really is amazing to think that it's only February - today was an incredibly sunny day here in the Netherlands, and apparently this weather will be persisting at least for a few more days. It's great to see al that carbon-dioxide dumping in the atmosphere finally paying off with some real greenhouse effects :-).

Link of the Day: University of California researchers mate human cells with circuitry. Could this be the next step towards the Borg? Thanks David Henderson for this!

Friday February 25, 2000

Eon Interviews Braga

Christian (7:59 pm CST)

Jeff Bond and Anthony C. Ferrante at Eon Magazine have put up a new interview with Brannon Braga, Voyager's executive producer. In the interview, Braga talks about internet fandom, his own love for Star Trek, and the future of Voyager:

The big question is (hasn't it always been) when and if will the Voyager crew find their way back to the Alpha Quadrant, and will the show's producers bring the ship home with enough episodes to spare so that the complex issues raised by the crew's seven years on the other side of the galaxy can be answered to fans' satisfaction.

"We talked about doing that," Braga acknowledges. "We talked about bringing the ship home this year or doing it as the last episode, or the sixth to last episode, and we see good possibilities in all these directions. I don't mean to sound wishy-washy but I just haven't decided. But we're continuing to talk about it and I think it's safe to say that the ship will continue to have contact with Earth, at the very least, the way we've established this season.

"The only thing I can say for certain is we'll continue the contact with Earth and you'll see Barclay again and we want to keep expanding upon that," he says. "How quickly that expands into Voyager getting home we don't know. I think we'd like to push it off as long as we can for obvious reasons. But we will continue with that, it was very successful."

For the full interview, follow this link. Thanks go out to Gustavo Leao and Elaine Butler for this!

IGN 'Spirit Folk' Review

Christian (7:59 pm CST)

Blake Fischer at IGN Sci-Fi has put up his review of Voyager's 'Spirit Folk', awarding the episode just 2 out of 5 stars. Here's a snippet from the review:

Now, admittedly I hate holodeck episodes and consider them a weak way for the writers to fill in some time while they try to think of a sci-fi related episode. This season's previous holodeck episode, "Fair Haven", was actually one of the few exceptions to this, because it tried to deal with some very valid issues that would come up if a holodeck really existed, like, can a human have a relationship with a hologram? Now, I was originally delighted to see the crew actually deal with the town again, since there was obviously some emotional depth there, but instead we get this rip-off of the famous ST: TNG episode where Moriarty takes over the Enterprise. Tragically, this time around the writers don't even try to grapple with the issue of the holograms trying to comprehend the fact that they are not real -- which would actually have turned the tables nicely after "Fair Haven". Instead I get a shallow episode where characters generally act quite silly and nothing really happens. Yup, pretty much your average holodeck experience.

Here's the full review.

Burton Wins Grammy

Christian (7:59 pm CST)

The official Star Trek Continuum is reporting that, this Wednesday, LeVar Burton (Geordi LaForge) was awarded the Grammy Award for Best Spoken Word Recording for his performance of 'The Autobiography of Martin Luther King'. THe site is also reporting that Burton is the director for the upcoming Voyager episode 'Live Fast and Prosper'.

Electric 'Hidden Evil' Review

Christian (7:58 pm CST)

Electric Games has put up its review of 'Star Trek: Hidden Evil', the Activision adventure game based on 'Insurrection'. Awarding it just 2 out of 5 stars, the reviewer wasn't impressed:

The biggest disappointment I had with this title is the fact that it had potential. It looks good, it sounds good, and it even started off well. For a while, I was expecting the "real" storyline to kick in and the game to take off. This never happened, and was a huge letdown. On the technical side, all it needed was a control facelift. The creative side is the biggest problem, unfortunately. Adventure titles need a good plot, and one of decent length at that. Hidden Evil has neither of these very important elements.

Read on here.

UPN Rebound Article

Christian (7:57 pm CST)

Rich Kissell and Josef Adalian at Variety have written a new article about UPN's rather succesful year, describing the network as achieving "one of the more astounding Nielsen rebounds in recent memory". Here's a snippet:

With ``WWF Smackdown!'' producing staggering gains of 171% in households and 1,025% in male teens Thursday nights, and the spill-over effect lifting programming on other nights to loftier Nielsens, UPN's primetime lineup is looking alive just nine months after the close of a disastrous 1998-99 season. This season, UPN is averaging 3.95 million viewers weekly and a 1.6 rating in the key adults 18-49 demographic, edging the WB (3.86 million, 1.5 in adults 18-49) in both categories. The results reflect UPN gains of 43% and 45%, respectively, and WB losses of 16% and 17% compared with year-ago figures.

It's one of the few times in its five-year history that UPN's Nielsen trend line is pointing up rather than down. ``We've compensated for the loss of distribution (from the defection of several Sinclair stations to the WB in 1998) so that we're back to where we were two years ago,'' said Valentine. ``Plus, we now have a more diverse audience, a more desirable demographic and much better prospects for the future.''

Read the full article here.

Robinson Directs 'Waiting For Godot'

Christian (7:57 pm CST)

The official Star Trek site is reporting about a new version of the classic Samuel Beckett play 'Waiting For Godot', directed by Andrew Robinson (Garak). The play is currently running at the Matrix Theatre in Los Angeles, until the 30th of April. For more information, read the full article at the Continuum.

'Spirit Folk' Tube Review

Christian (7:57 pm CST)

Jeff Bond at Eon's Tube Reviews has put up his review of Voyager's 'Spirit Folk'. Perhaps not surprisingly, Bond didn't like the episode at all:

I hereby place a bounty on the head of the person or persons who invented the holodeck and the holodeck malfunction, otherwise known as "the crutch." Is there no greater admission that you're completely out of ideas than trapping starship crewmembers aboard the holodeck again? This is a conceit that can trace its way all the way back to the 1973 animated series (Dr. McCoy and some other crewmembers get trapped on a holodeck-like Enterprise recreation room in "The Practical Joker"), and "Spirit Folk" is in essence nothing more than a rehash of early TNG episodes like "The Big Goodbye" and "Elementary, My Dear Data." Other antecedents are "Who Watches the Watchers," in which superstitious aliens mistake Federation scientists for gods, and of course, VOYAGER's "Fair Haven," the Irish period holodeck tale seemingly told only a few weeks ago.

In the full review the episode is awarded a D+.

'Galaxy Quest' Debuts In France

Christian (7:57 pm CST)

Rita Kempley has just written a new article for the International Herald Tribune, reviewing the recent 'Galaxy Quest' film, which has apparently just debuted in France. 'Galaxy Quest' is a Star Trek spoof starring Tim Allen.

Today On TV

Christian (7:57 pm CST)

-On Saturday in Canada, Space! will be showing DS9's 'Past Tense, Part Two' at 04:45am Eastern Time. At 10:00, they'll be showing the Original Series episode 'The Empath'.

-On Saturday in the United Kingdom, Sky One will be showing DS9's 'Heart Of Stone' at 16:00 GMT, followed an hour later by Voyager's 'Prey'. Thanks go out to Kathryn Hughes for this!

-On Saturday in Germany, Sat.1 will be showing the Original Series' 'Miri, ein Kleinling' (Miri) at 14:00 CET, and DS9's 'Kampf mit allen Mitteln' (Extreme Measures) at 16:00.

-On Saturday here in The Netherlands, the AVRO on Nederland 1 will be showing Voyager's 'Dragon's Teeth' at 18:07 CET.

Trek BBS Today

Christian (7:56 pm CST)

Here are a few of the topics currently being discussed at the Trek BBS:

-Do you think we should have a new Trek Art forum at the BBS, or should fan art just be posted in the fan fiction forum?

-Are there any often criticised Voyager episodes you really like?

Find more topics at the Trek BBS!

Hello World!

Christian (7:56 pm CST)

I just came back from what has got the be the worst theatre show I've ever been to in my whole life - 'Hamerliefde' (Hammerlove) from the Dutch writers Ronald Giphart and Joost Zwagerman. I haven't got a clue why they actually called the show that, though perhaps it was a reference to the fact that most sane people would love to hammer them on their head after the show. The problem was mainly that the show was so enourmously unfunny it actually had its humourous sides to it again, though most of the duo's attempts at humour consisted of cheap tricks to get attention or were simply banal - I for one do not need to hear so-called romantic poems which have lines such as "My Marc for your Dutroux", that's just in extremely bad taste. The really bad thing is I'll now not even be able to enjoy their books anymore - after this evening I've really lost all the respect I might have possibly had for them.

Thursday February 24, 2000

DeLancie TV Appearance

Christian (6:16 pm CST)

Chris Harrison and Brigitte Kiefer sent along word that John DeLancie (Q) appeared in last Wednesday's episode of NBC's 'West Wing' series as a Democratic Party pollster.

Beltran On 'Night Of The Comet'

Christian (6:15 pm CST)

The Official Robert Beltran site has put up a new Self Portrait by Robert Beltran (Chakotay), in which the Voyager actor looks back at his 1984 film 'Night of the Comet'. In the film, Beltran played one of the few survivors on Earth after a huge meteor crashed on Los Angeles. Here's the start of the entry, in which he talks about being cast in the starring role:

This is a role I turned down three times. I turned it down because the director and producers wanted me to play Hector pretty much the way I had played Raoul. I've never been one to be happy with repeating something just because it was successful, but they kept insisting that I meet with them. They offered me more money and even top billing, so I met with them.

I told them that if I could play it much differently than as written I would do it. They squirmed in their chairs. I said, "Look, this guy is basically the male hero of the film and since he's the only surviving man on earth he represents every man. I want to play him like Gary Cooper, the reluctant hero." They finally agreed.

After we signed the contracts the director said to me, "You know Robert, if you hadn't done the role we were going to get a regular American guy to do it!"

Pictures from the film can be found in the actual self portrait.

Extremely Poor 'Spirit Folk' Ratings

Christian (6:15 pm CST)

Greg Fuller at the Star Trek Nielsen Ratings Information Database just posted the overnight ratings report for 'Spirit Folk', containing some pretty bad news:

Spirit Folk" performed extremely poorly for Voyager, only managing a 3.6 rating, 5 share -- one of Voyager's lowest overnight ratings ever. That rating places "Spirit Folk" below last week's 4.8/7 from "Collective" and was in fact outperformed by some of this year's reruns.

CBS' broadcast of the Grammy Awards, as usual, was responsible for much of Voyager's ratings collapse this week. The music awards show peaked during Voyager's first half-hour with a 21.3/30. The WB chose to sacrifice two reruns to the Grammies and finished behind Voyager in 6th at 9 p.m. with an "Angel" rerun taking a 2.9/4.

In the full report, Greg offers a few explanations for the low ratings, and also speculates that this might well translate into Voyager's lowest national rating ever.

'Voyager: Elite Force' Interview

Christian (6:14 pm CST)

Apache at Gamefan has put up an interview with Steve Elwell, the Activision producer responsible for 'Voyager: Elite Force'. Here's how the interview starts:

GameFan: For people who've never heard of the game before, what's the basic story behind Star Trek: Elite Force?

Steve Elwell: The story begins when the Voyager responds to a distress call from a seemingly derelict ship. As they draw closer to the ship, it suddenly springs to life and fires upon the Voyager. Voyager returns fire and the ship explodes, releasing a huge sphere of energy that envelops the Voyager and her crew, transporting them to a mysterious ship grave yard.

It's the Elite Force's job to discover the mysterious force that created the ship graveyard and find a way to escape from it. The player plays the role of Alexander (or Alexandria) Monroe, second in command and point man (or woman) for the Elite Force. The EF is basically a special ops team formed by Lt. Commander Tuvok to handle extreme situations.

For the full interview, go here. Thanks go out to Federation HQ for the link.

Mania 'Spirit Folk' Review

Christian (6:14 pm CST)

Michelle Erica Green over at AnotherUniverse's Mania Magazine has put up a new edition of her 'Hailing Frequencies' column, also including a short review of yesterday's 'Spirit Folk'. Perhaps not so surprisingly, Green wasn't impressed by 'Spirit Folk':

This episode had a few lines that made me scream aloud with laughter. Unfortunately, I don't mean that in a good way. I was so embarrassed for Kathryn Janeway, and by extension anyone who still admires or relates to her, that I wasn't sure whether to laugh or cry. For all the problems with holographic love, it is supposed to offer one unfailing advantage: privacy. No one has to know, when you leave the holodeck flushed and glowing, whether you've been making love or playing Velocity. So how come Janeway, who's too uptight to give her junior officers hugs, has no problem with her crew ridiculing her romance with an inflatable man?

The full edition of the column contains the rest of the review, a plot summary, a review of the first two 'DS9: Millennium' novels, and a round-up of the latest Trek news.

'Ashes To Ashes' Promo

Christian (6:14 pm CST)

Mr. Video Productions has put up the official UPN promo for 'Ashes to Ashes', next week's Voyager episode. The video runs for 22 seconds, has a file size of 4 MB, and actually succeeds in making this episode look rather well. You can download it on Vidiot's site, or via the perhaps somewhat faster local TrekToday mirror.

Sorbo Talks 'Andromeda'

Christian (6:14 pm CST)

The new edition of TV Guide contains an interview with Kevin Sorbo, in which he talks about the new 'Andromeda' series. Here's what Sorbo has to say about the series:

"It's actually a combination of two ideas - Andromeda and Starship - that were buried deep down in the Roddenberry vaults. [The series] concerns the Commonwealth, a government based on Earth and consisting of thousands of planets, that has been ruined by civil war. It will be more in the spirit of the original Trek, with Hunt and his crew visiting all these wild worlds as they try to restore peace."

Sorbo, who admits "Hercules was sometimes an eighth of a degree away from Gilligan's Island," hopes this dramatic role will earn him the respect of those who think he's just another hunk. "After Hercules I needed to do something serious," he says. "I'm very competitive. I need to succeed to prove it to the people who didn't think I could. Ninety - nine out of a hundred people can tell me I'm a good actor, but what really fuels my fire is the one who says, 'You're just another Malibu Ken.'"

The full interview, conducted by Michael Logan has been reposted here on TrekWeb.

'Klingon Academy' Demo Info

Christian (6:13 pm CST)

At the official Interplay discussion boards for 'Klingon Academy', developer Brian Christian recently posted the following:

Our testers and internal teams have played the demo and enjoyed it, but have also provided us with some vital feedback that we feel will make the demo better. We are working very hard finishing some minor tweaks and when they are done we will release the demo. We expect this to happen shortly. This message board and chat room will be the first to know when and where the demo will be available. Thank you for your patience.

Thanks go out to Federation HQ for this!

Cinescape 'Spirit Folk' Review

Christian (6:13 pm CST)

Regular Star Trek contributor Michael Marek at Cinescape has put up his review of 'Spirit Folk', yesterday's new Voyager episode. Here's a short snippet from his review:

[Long] time Star Trek fans will see several problems. The "Problem on the Holodeck" script has become one of the most overused formulas in Star Trek. We saw it last season on Voyager with the Captain Proton story. We saw it near the end of Deep Space Nine when the Las Vegas lounge program started doing goofy things. The formula, and this variation in which holodeck characters become self-aware, goes all the way back to the beginning of The Next Generation and the Moriarty and Minuet characters. I can't call the formula "tried and true" because it is tiresome. "Yet Another Holodeck Malfunction." Ho, hum.

For the full analysis, go to Cinescape.

Disappointing 'Collective' Final Ratings

Christian (6:13 pm CST)

Not much good ratings news today. Take a look at how Greg Fuller starts his 'Collective' national ratings report for the Star Trek Nielsen Ratings Information Database:

Coming off a strong showing from "Tsunkatse," "Collective" earned a fairly disappointing 3.5 rating, 5 share. That's Voyager's lowest mark since "Fair Haven" only drew a 3.4. "Collective" was also off from last year's "Bliss," which earned a 3.9/6 this week last year.

Timeslot competition info can be found in the full report.

'Star Trek: Hidden Evil' Review

Christian (6:13 pm CST)

Bernard Dy at PCGamePro, apparently not the quickest site on the net, has just put up a review of 'Insurrection: Hidden Evil', the Activision adventure game. Here's how he starts his review:

A few legendary curses haunt the PC games industry. One claims a good superhero game will never see the light of day. Another taunts that a creative license pinned on a game will help as much as a tick on a dog. No franchise tries more at striking gold in the games market than Star Trek, a statistic befitting the TV series known for optimism. Star Trek: Hidden Evil has the pedigree for success, but ultimately disappoints.

For the full review, follow this link.

Berman Interview, Part Two

Christian (6:13 pm CST)

Over at Cinescape, they've put up part two of their interview with Rick Berman, the man currently in charge of modern Trek. In this part, they ask him three questions about Voyager's ratings, and about the next Star Trek film. Here's the first question, and Berman's answer:

Cinescape: Are you worried that ratings for Voyager are nowhere near as high as they were for The Next Generation?

Berman: Obviously, the ratings aren't what they were for The Next Generation, but I believe that's the nature of the beast. Gene created that show, and it was the first Star Trek on TV in almost 20 years. After four seasons of TNG, we created another one, DS9. And then as soon as TNG ended, we developed Voyager. All of a sudden, there were three Trek shows on the air, not including the original series. You reach a saturation point and, obviously, the numbers begin to diminish. In terms of developing the new show, we are hoping to come up with something that's going to bring back the Next Generation audience we've lost.

For the full interview, follow this link.

'DS9: The Fallen' Staff Departures

Christian (6:12 pm CST)

Yesterday, Evil Avatar posted a short news bit about some staff departures at Collective Studios, the developer of the upcoming 'Deep Space Nine: The Fallen' game. Take a look:

Elliot Cannon has left The Collective to pursue his dream of working on a massively multiplayer project-- an opportunity that he couldn't refuse given his passion for this genre. Elliot has been an enormous help directing the level design push for The Fallen and we wish him continued success in his career. However, the completion timeframe for the The Fallen will not be effected by Elliot's departure.

Two other level designers have left our company over the course of the last 4 months for their own personal reasons and to pursue other opportunities. They had completed their work on The Fallen and were about to be reassigned to other internal projects.

The design staff on The Fallen are currently focused on fleshing-out and play-balancing the gameplay in all of the levels (the overall design, modeling, and texturing has been completed for some time).

Over the coming weeks, the Collective will release the first gameplay movies from the game, to sites such as Evil Avatar.

UPN & WB Share Markets

Christian (6:12 pm CST)

In yesterday's edition of the Daily Variety, Michael Schneider wrote an article about a new deal between the WB and UPN, giving them access to an extra 3.8% of the country:

There's a slight thaw in the bitterly cold battle between the WB and UPN. Jamie Kellner's Acme Communications and the Paramount Stations Group will soon begin sharing programming in six markets where the two weblets don't compete.

Under the deal, the Paramount-owned UPN stations in Columbus, Ohio, West Palm Beach, Fla., and Providence, R.I., will carry some WB programming out of pattern. At the same time, Acme's WB stations in St. Louis, Knoxville, Tenn., and Champaign-Decatur-Springfield, Ill., will air some UPN skeins.

This move is great news for Voyager fans in these areas, as they will now again be able to see the show (as well as 'WWF Smackdown!'). Thanks go out to Steven Milmine for this!

'Elite Force' Comic Announced

Christian (6:12 pm CST)

Gamespot is announcing that Activision and DC Comics will soon be co-publishing a comic book based on Raven's upcoming action game, 'Voyager: Elite Force':

The comic book will be 48-pages long, and will be drawn by Jeff Moi and W.C. Carani of Wildstorm Comics. The plot of the book coincides with the game's story and sees Captain Janeway's crew trying to free the Voyager from a sea of derelict ships. The book will also contain helpful hints and tips for Raven's game, and it will arrive in stores this summer, before the game's release.

A sample page from the comic can be found in the full news item.

High School Sci-Trek Night

Christian (6:12 pm CST)

The Los Angeles Times is reporting that the Costa Mesa High School, presumably located somewhere near LA, held a Sci-Trek night yesterday at 7:00pm. The evening's featured guest was Andr� Bormanis, who is Voyager's Science Advisor. The event was a fund-raiser for the school's science fair, and allowed attending students to dress as their favourite Trek characters, as you can read in this short announcement.

Sound Source Financial Results

Christian (6:12 pm CST)

Sound Source Interactive, the computer game company responsible for products such as the 'Star Trek Game Show', just posted its financial results for the quarter which ended on the 31st of December, 1999. During this period, the company achieved net sales of $353,454, substantially lower than the achieved during the same period in 1998. One of the reasons cited by the company for the lower sales are disappointing sales of several products released during the quarter, including the 'Star Trek: Trivia Challenge' (which isn't that disappointing, considering this is the first time I've heard of the product). The full financial report can be found here.

Art Guild Awards Date

Christian (6:11 pm CST)

The Fourth Annual Art Directors Guild Excellence in Production Design Awards will be presented this Saturday, the 26th of February, before a black-tie industry gathering of 650 guests. One of the nominees this year is Rich D. James, for the Voyager episode '11:59'. Read more about the ceremony in the full press release.

Correction

Christian (6:11 pm CST)

About a week ago, we reported on the local UPN affiliate in Detroit, which had a newscast about the filming of 'Collective'. The newscast described the experiences of Ryan Spahn, a Detroit native, who played the adolescent Borg in the episode. It also supposedly mentioned that Spahn was accompanied to the set by 'his uncle', a big Star Trek fan, who had also given Spahn several Trek episodes featuring the Borg to watch, so that he could prepare for his role. Now, I just received an email from John Homeister, Ryan Spahn's step-father, stating that it was he who accompanied Spahnn to the set, and not an uncle. It's unclear if the original UPN newscast actually mentioned an uncle, but, in any case, it's corrected now.

Happy Birthday!

Christian (6:11 pm CST)

Today would have been the 66th birthday of Glenn Corbett, who appeared as Zefram Cochrane on the TOS episode 'Metamorphosis', had he not sadly passed away in 1993. Also, yesterday was the 61st birthday of Majel Barrett Roddenberry, the widow of Gene Roddenberry, who has appeared on Star Trek as Number One in the original TOS pilot, Nurse Chapel in the Original Series, Lwaxana Troi on TNG and DS9, and the computer voice on every incarnation of Star Trek. She's currently overseeing the 'Earth: Final Conflict' and 'Andromeda' shows.

Poll Results

Christian (6:11 pm CST)

Below are the results of the most recent TrekToday poll, asking when you first started visiting TrekToday:

I'm really intrigued by the large number of people who apparently first visited in February 1999, considering we then had a *lot* less visitors than 14% of what we have now. Anyway, please also participate in the new poll, asking what you thought about Voyager's 'Spirit Folk'.

Today On TV

Christian (6:10 pm CST)

-On Friday in the United States, the Sci-Fi Channel will be showing the Original Series' 'The Alternative Factor' at 4:00pm Eastern Time.

-On Friday in Canada, Space! will be showing DS9's 'Past Tense, Part One' at 4:00am Eastern Time, the Original Series' 'Is There In Truth No Beauty?' at 10:00am and at 4:00pm, and DS9's 'Past Tense, Part Two' at 10:00pm.

-On Friday in the United Kingdom, Sky One will be showing Voyager's 'Hunters' at 17:00 and 0:00 GMT. Thanks go out to Kathryn Hughes for this!

-On Friday in Germany, Sat.1 will be showing Voyager's 'Tattoo' at 15:00 CET.

Trek BBS Today

Christian (6:10 pm CST)

Below are some of the topics being discussed at the Trek BBS:

-Read da Woim's review, Cureboy's review and Russel Christiansen's criticism of 'Spirit Folk' -What happened to the Klingon/Romulan alliance mentioned in the third season of the Original Series?

Will Benjamin Sisko ever return?

Find more topics at the Trek BBS!

Hello World!

Christian (6:10 pm CST)

Nothing like a day off to refresh oneself completely. Still, now that I look at the amount of news that was able to accumulate in just one day I again realise why I shouldn't do this too often :-).

Tuesday February 22, 2000

SITE NEWS: No Wednesday Update

Christian (6:10 pm CST)

After the first anniversary of TrekToday yesterday, I figured I deserved a break :-). Updates will resume tomorrow again.

'Andromeda' Shooting Date

Christian (6:10 pm CST)

On Usenet, Robert Hewitt Wolfe just answered a few fan questions about his own role on 'Andromeda', the upcoming series based on Gene Roddenberry's notes and starring Kevin Sorbo. When asked if he would be commuting back and forth from Los Angeles (where he lives) to Vancouver, where the show will be shot, he answered:

[Yes], I'll be going up there a lot, especially for pre-production and production of the first 3 or 4 episodes.

Then, when asked if he would have an associate on site who would relay info to him, he said:

I'm the co-executive producer and head writer. One of the other executive producers, Allan Eastman, will be running the set up in Vancouver. We're very much partners in the creative process, along with the other executive producers, Majel Roddenberry, Kevin Sorbo, and Eric Gold. Andromeda is a highly collaborative show and a lot of extremely talented people are working very hard to make it into something we can all be proud of.

[...]

Logistics are tough, but like I said, we're working hard on keep the process effective and efficient. So far, so good. Of course, the real trial by fire will start on May 8 when filming begins. No plan of battle ever survives the first engagement with the (in this case metaphysical) enemy.

'Andromeda' will premiere on television stations throughout the country in Fall 2000.

New Star Trek DVDs Released

Christian (6:09 pm CST)

Daniel Kikin sends along word that Paramount Home Video released three more Original Series DVDs today, each storing two Classic Trek episodes. Out now are Volumes 6 (with 'Miri' and 'Conscience of the King'), 7 ('The Galileo Seven' and 'Court Martial') and 8 ('The Menagerie, Parts One and Two'). The DVDs are selling exceptionally well on Amazon.com, as these three discs are all in the top-35, with volume 7 and 8 even being at no. 15 and 16, respectively.

'Tribbles' CCG Expansion Tested

Christian (6:09 pm CST)

Over at Decipher, the publisher of the official Star Trek Customisable Card Game, they've put up a report of a playtest of the upcoming 'The Trouble With Tribbles' expansion set. Here's how they start their report:

A couple of weekends ago, the intrepid field operatives of the Holographic Tal Shiar Barbering and Engineering Guild from numerous regions throughout two quadrants converged on Central Command Headquarters (aka the Office of Praetor Holland) in Sector 001. Our mission: to investigate the incursion of small, furry alien lifeforms that reproduce at an alarming rate and make strong Klingons hyperventilate. Or to put it another way, to playtest the next expansion, The Trouble with Tribbles. Hip-deep in tribbles and taking appropriate security precautions to keep the pesky critters from consuming our stocks of soda, Ho-Hos, chips, peppermint patties, donuts and pizza, we began building decks.

While the set will contain a variety of cards from throughout the Star Trek universe, we were most intent on testing the gameplay of the expansion's main theme: tribbles and the "crossover" Deep Space Nine episode, "Trials and Tribble-ations," bringing the DS9 crew together with the classic Trek crew on Station K-7. Federation and Klingon decks were understandably popular, but we also checked out how other affiliations such as the Romulan Star Empire, the mighty Dominion and the implacable Borg would fare against the furry nemesis as well. My first day deck pitted a Romulan mission-solving deck laced with tribbles against several Klingon decks, with and without tribbles; the second day I tested a variety of other cards including some new dilemmas and Q-icon cards, and a couple of homeworld-related cards. Here's a sneak peek behind the scenes of our tribble hunt. (Just remember that it's still early in the development process and not everything you see here may appear in exactly the same form in the final set � that's why we're playtesting!)

Look here for the full report, containing lots of info on the set.

Berman Talks New Trek

Christian (6:09 pm CST)

Cinescape has just put up an interview with Star Trek's Executive Producer Rick Berman, in which he talks about internet rumours and the current state of Series V:

"We're very enthusiastic about this new concept. I don't think it's a show that will go on the air any sooner than January or February of 2001 or quite possibly September of 2001, which would mean a year and a half from now," Berman told Norris and Van Vleet. "But I feel this next series, which I'm not prepared to talk about just yet, is going to be a crucial step for the survival of Star Trek. I am not saying this in any way to put down Voyager, which I think is going as well as it ever has. But I think that the survival of the franchise could hinge upon it. It has to be something unique and fresh and it can't be a rehashing of one of the previous series."

Berman's not-so-surprising opinion of internet rumours can be found at Cinescape. They'll be publishing the second part of the interview tomorrow.

'Klingon Academy' Terrain Guide

Christian (6:09 pm CST)

Klingon Academy News has put up a special Klingon Academy Terrain Guide, featuring info on all the spatial phenomena you'll be encountering in Interplay's upcoming space simulator. You can find the guide, which was written by Nightmare, by going here.

Delta Blues 'Collective' Review

Christian (6:09 pm CST)

Jim Wright at Delta Blues has put up his review of last week's new Voyager episode, 'Collective'. As the original analysis was lost in a system crash, the version posted online is somewhat short, but Jim still makes a few interesting points:

All in all, this episode was pretty darned dull. There are good uses of the Borg--but this did nothing for me. There wasn't any real suspense concerning the hostages, and the tiny shock the girl gave Tom Paris got zero follow up. There was pretty much zero relationship commentary from either Paris or Torres; Tom seemed more concerned about Harry. The lead drone annoyed me; I found myself begging the television for them to get it over with and kill him already. It wasn't even all that entertaining or meaningful as demises go.

And don't even get me started on the science. Anyway. Call it two and a half stars (out of four).

On second thought, call it two stars. Maybe this was TPTB's attempt to appeal to the nurturing side of the audience...but for my money, I'd rather rewatch "Tsunkatse." For those griping about the violence in that episode, I point out that NOBODY DIED last week, but we had a couple of fairly gruesome deaths this time out. I know I'd rather get smacked down in a blue match than humiliated, alienated, and electrocuted....

But maybe that's just me.

Read the complete analysis, pluss the usual enourmous synopsis, by going here.

Trek Film Franchise Editorial

Christian (6:08 pm CST)

AntonyF over at Fandom's Star Trek Central has put up a new editorial at his site, dealing with the future of the Star Trek film franchise:

What other franchise has 9 films under its belt and still has life in it? Not many. James Bond is still going strong and shows that a franchise can survive. However James Bond hasn't stayed with the same actors, and neither should the Trek franchise. I know Trek well, and am usually quite good at predicting what's to come. So here's my take on what's going to happen with the Star Trek film franchise. Most of it is personal opinion and not news, so don't take it as the truth. Only time will tell in the end.

In the actual article, Antony looks at a few options for the future Trek films, and also examines how likely it is that each cast member will return for more films.

Happy Birthday!

Christian (6:08 pm CST)

Today is the 32nd birthday of Jeri Ryan, who stars as Seven on Nine on Voyager. It's also the 72nd birthday of Paul Dooley, who appeared on several DS9 episodes as Garak's former mentor, Enabran Tain. And, last but not least, it's of course TrekToday's first birthday :-)!

Today On TV

Christian (6:08 pm CST)

-On Wednesday in the United States, the Sci-Fi Channel will be showing the Original Series' 'Devil in the Dark' at 4:00pm Eastern Time.

-On Wednesday in Canada, Space! will be showing DS9's 'Defiant' at 4:00am Eastern Time, the Original Series 'And The Children Shall Lead' at 10:00am and at 4:00pm, and DS9's 'Fascination' at 10:00pm.

-On Wednesday in the United Kingdom, Sky One will be showing Voyager's 'Waking Moments' at 17:00 and at 0:00 GMT, while BBC Two will be showing DS9's 'Change of Heart' at 18:45. Thanks go out to Kathryn Hughes for this!

-On Wednesday in Germany, Sat.1 will be showing Voyager's 'Der H�llenplanet' at 15:00 CET.

-And tonight at 8:00pm (7:00pm Central Time), NBC will be airing an hour-long episode of the sitcom '3rd Rock From The Sun', featuring a guest appearance by William Shatner (James T. Kirk) as Big Giant Head.

Trek BBS Today

Christian (6:08 pm CST)

Below are some of the topics currently being discussed at the Trek BBS:

-What did you think about X-Cops, this weekend's episode of the 'X-Files'?

-Was Star Trek: Insurrection unfairly condemned?

-Did you see the surprising news about Harry Kim in yesterday's 'Ashes to Ashes' episode descriptions.

Find more topics at the Trek BBS!

Hello World!

Christian (6:08 pm CST)

Yeehaa! TrekToday is now officially one year old! Exactly a year ago (or at least, a year and about 8 hours ago, as at the beginning TrekToday actually used to be updated around 5:00pm CET) I opened the site, following a week-long test run about a week earlier. Of course, those first days there weren't very many visitors yet - just 19 on the 22nd, 28 on the 23rd, and then, after registering the site at the major Trek search engines and posting an announcement to Usenet, 77 visitors on the 24th and even 205 visitors on the 25th. After that there were of course several other major milestones in the development of the site, such as the opening of the Trek BBS and later the Trek Nation, but no day was quite as exciting as that first day.

Of course, perfectly following Murphy's Law, not everything went as planned for this year's anniversary celebration: as you may have noticed the UGO ad server has been experiencing a few problems over the past few days, and unfortunately my own mail server was also down for a few hours. I also didn't yet manage to put up the updated TrekToday design, but I'm quite confident it'll be up within the next two weeks.

Thanks again to everyone for visiting, and especially to all those people who took the effort over the past year to mail me with news, suggestions, questions or just compliments for the site - TrekToday would never have been able to get as big as it is now without you!

Monday February 21, 2000

New 'Armada' Beta Reports

Christian (8:43 pm CST)

Over at Starbase Armada, they've added two more installments in their series of beta reports. In the first one, they talk about the importance of the crews in the game, while in the second one they deal with the issue of movement in the game. Both reports are accompanied by new screenshots. Click here to read them.

Kes, Voyager's Graduate

Christian (8:42 pm CST)

Julia Houston at About.com's Star Trek Fans has put up a new feature article, looking at the character of Kes:

There's only one character in Voyager's history who fully realized their "potential," and though we might miss her, looking at the range of her character development over the show's early seasons, there may have been no place else for Kes to go but off the ship.

Now, the behind-the-scenes rumors about why Jennifer Lien left the show suggest many different scenarios. Was she mad? Did the producers treat her unfairly? I don't know. I doubt people when they tell me they do know. There can be no doubt that bringing Seven on the show boosted the ratings, but that doesn't mean Kes had to leave to make Seven "work."

But ultimately, none of this behind-the-scenes stuff matters anyhow. In many ways, the full gamut of Kes' characterization is both unique to Star Trek and darn good storytelling. It works better, of course, when people on the ship actually mention her name, but they've started doing that recently -- Have you noticed? -- and now that it looks like she's finally going to be remembered properly, it's time to enjoy all she brought us.

Read more about Kes in the full article.

Cinescape 'Collective' Review

Christian (8:42 pm CST)

Over at Cinescape, regular Star Trek contributor Michael Marek has put up his review of 'Collective', last week's new Voyager episode. Here's how he starts his review:

The theme of Borg drones disconnected from the Collective has been very popular in Star Trek, but the concept is tarnishing through frequency of use.

Way back in Star Trek: the Next Generation we met Hugh, a teenaged Borg who had been disconnected. His story was poignant and popular enough that the producers brought him back for an encore, in which we met a whole group of Borg who had become disconnected from the collective. In Voyager, the theme has cropped up again and again -- but just with the appearance of the popular character Seven of Nine but on several other occasions. It's starting to wear very thin.

Find the full review at Cinescape.

'Ashes To Ashes' UPN Description

Christian (8:42 pm CST)

NOTE: Below you'll find spoilers for 'Ashes to Ashes', an upcoming Voyager episode. Click here to avoid these.

Again, this is where you need to click if you do not want to be spoiled.

UPN has put up the official episode description for 'Ashes to Ashes':

To the shock and disbelief of the crew, their colleague, Ensign Lyndsay Ballard, returns to the Starship after having been killed on a mission long ago. Pursued by her alien Kobali abductors, whose reproductive system is centered on reanimation of the dead, she rekindles her former relationships with Janeway and the crew of the Voyager, hoping to reverse the effects of the alien genes implanted in her system. Her old friendship with Lieutenant Harry Kim ignites and deepens until the moment in his quarters when she realizes the horror and extent of her Kobali genes. Harry's support and affection complicates Ballard's final decision as to whether she will remain human or return to the Kobali homeland with the alien family that loves her.

The first photo from the episode, showing Ensign Ballard, can be found here. 'Ashes to Ashes' airs on the 1st of March.

New Sev Trek Competition

Christian (8:42 pm CST)

John Cook at Sev Trek has put up a new edition of the 'Write Your Own Sev Trek' competition:

Here's what this week's competition deals with:

Beta's bizarre lifeform song.

This is one of those weird moments from Sev Trek 7: Degenerations where Beta's emotion chip was malfunctioning (not the only thing that was malfunctioning in that scene, I think). Perhaps the writers were practising for the even more surreal Gilbert and Sullivan singing scene in Sev Trek 9: Indigestion.

Submit your punchlines here.

'Spirit Folk' Promo Online

Christian (8:41 pm CST)

Actually Mr. Video Productions has had it online for quite a while now, but due to connection problems I haven't been able to put up a mirror until now. Anyway, available now is the official UPN promo of 'Spirit Folk', next Wednesday's Voyager episode, featuring a return to Fair Haven. As usual, the video comes as a 4.0 MB file, with a runtime of 22 seconds. You can download it at Vidiot's site or via our local TrekToday mirror.

Happy Birthday!

Christian (8:41 pm CST)

Today is the 63rd birthday of Gary Lockwood, who appeared in the second TOS pilot as Gary Mitchell. It's also the 45th birthday of Kelsey Grammer, star of 'Frasier' and long-time Star Trek fan, who appeared in TNG's 'Cause and Effect' as Captain Morgan Bateson. A long-time rumour holds that he also provided a voice-over as Captain Bateson for 'Star Trek: First Contact'.

Today On TV

Christian (8:41 pm CST)

-On Tuesday in the United States, the Sci-Fi Channel will be showing the Original Series' 'This Side Of Paradise' at 4:00pm Eastern Time.

-On Tuesday in Canada, Space! will be showing DS9's 'Meridian' at 4:00am Eastern Time, the Original Series' 'The Enterprise Incident' at 10:00am and at 4:00pm, and DS9's 'Defiant' at 10:00pm.

-On Tuesday in the United Kingdom, Sky One will be showing Voyager's 'Mortal Coil' at 17:00 and at 0:00 GMT. Thanks go out to Kathryn Hughes for this!

-On Tuesday in Germany, Sat.1 will be showing Voyager's 'Die Raumverzerrung' at 15:00 CET.

Trek BBS Today

Christian (8:41 pm CST)

Here are some of the topics currently being discussed at the Trek BBS:

-How would you feel about someone you knew being shot out of a torpedo tube, instead of getting a proper burial?

-Take a look at some schematics of the timeship Relativity.

Find more topics at the Trek BBS!

Hello World!

Christian (8:41 pm CST)

Just one more day before the official first anniversary of TrekToday. I still remember the night before I actually opened TrekToday, when I was really nervous if the site would have any chance of succeeding at all - I knew I wanted to read daily Trek news, but would anyone else also be interested in that? About a million visitors later, it seems that I wasn't the only one who was interested :-). Thanks again for your support, everyone!

Sunday February 20, 2000

Robert Picardo Interview

Christian (6:20 pm CST)

Christopher Howell at the Great Link has put up an interview with Robert Picardo, who stars n 'Voyager' as the Holodoc. The interview first appeared in the March 2000 edition of the Star Trek Monthly Magazine. Here's a short quote from the interview, in which Picardo talks about being recognised:

Although the role of the Doctor on Star Trek: Voyager is Picardo's highest-profile character turn to date, he's still recognised by fans for these earlier roles : "I went to [the Netherlands] about two-and-a- half weeks ago to open the STAR TREK: Federation Science museum exhibit in Rotterdam, I was in line, waiting to change money at the airport and there was this little hubbub when they saw me. A gentlemen said, 'You are the doctor... on China Beach!' And I said, 'Yes, I am.' And he said [indicating a woman near him], 'Oh, she didn't believe me. She thought you were just the man who trained us here 10 years ago.' Everyone thinks I'm somebody they know, but [these two] had no idea that I had done anything other than play the doctor on China Beach."

"I get that reaction still from The Wonder Years, because that plays a lot in re-runs. And then, curiously, I will get recognised for being in Innerspace, and they have no idea about any other credit I have, but I get recognised for playing the Cowboy. So that's another one that always strikes me as just being bizarre."

Find the full interview by following this link.

'Armada' Beta Report Starts

Christian (6:19 pm CST)

Starbase Armada has started it series of reports about the beta test program of 'Star Trek: Armada', Activision's upcoming real-time strategy game. Over the course of the next few weeks, they'll be providing detailed new info about the game's gameplay, but for now they've already put up a description of the various intro movies. Click here to go to the report.

Bryan Fuller Interview

Christian (6:19 pm CST)

The Great Link has put up an interview with Voyager staff writer Bryan Fuller, which first appeared in issue #258 of Starburst Magazine. In the interview, Fuller talks about how he managed to keep this job for so long, his favourite episodes and story edits, while he also mentions what he thinks will be happening when Voyager finally gets home:

Fuller's phone has buzzed several times during this conversation and it does so again now. This time, Fuller groans audibly. He's got to head into a meeting. And so the discussion ends with a few quick thoughts about the end of Voyager, about whether or not the ship should be brought home. Fuller points out that if the ship got home, Janeway would probably not be disciplined, as she managed to bring two crews together and keep them together for seven years.

As for those crewman who were Maquis rebels, including Chakotay (Robert Beltran), Paris (Robert Duncan McNeill), Fuller figures that they'll get off with reprimands. After all, they were ultimately right about the Cardassian threat and they helped Janeway and the others survive their adventures in the Delta Quadrant.

"It would be nice to bring them all back with enough time to develop the effects of getting home," Fuller concludes. "And then I'd like to send them all out on another wonderful journey."

Click here for the full interview.

Voyager Episode Schedule Updated

Christian (6:19 pm CST)

Though delayed by a massive server crash (which apparently wiped out all the updates over the past two weeks at the site), David Henderson at Psi Phi has updated his Voyager episode schedule. The schedule contains confirmed airdates until the 12th of April, when UPN will be showing 'Equinox' and 'Equinox, Part Two'.

European Trek DVD News

Christian (6:19 pm CST)

According to the British DVD Reviewer, Star Trek DVDs will finally be made available in Region 2 (Europe), as Paramount Home Video is reportedly planning a Star Trek boxed set in April. In other DVD news, DS9 is currently at #7 on the 'Most Wanted' list of the DVD Times, selected by readers. Thanks go out to the Great Link for these two items!

Cynical 'Collective' Review

Christian (6:19 pm CST)

David E. Sluss at the Cynics Corner has put up his review of 'Collective', last week's new Voyager episode. Here are two of his comments from the review:

MISSED OPPORTUNITY OF THE WEEK: It's not clear what happened to the cube in the end; you'd have to hope that Janeway wouldn't just leave it floating around. But did Voyager's crew attempt to salvage anything, like transwarp coils? A mention in Janeway's closing log entry might have been appropriate. I can accept that nothing functional was found on the cube, but I can't accept that no one even looked, not when Janeway was willing to steal tech from a populated cube in "Dark Frontier."

CONTRIVANCE OF THE WEEK: All of the Borg cube's devices are failing and/or being used incorrectly by the brats, except for the masking gizmo that hides the cube from the Delta Fryer until the shocking "Borg cube through the windshield scene" in the teaser can be completed. Any reason why that device isn't standard issue on all Borg cubes?

In the full review, the episode is awarded a 5.0.

Poll Results

Christian (6:18 pm CST)

Below are the results of the most recent TrekToday poll, in which you were asked what you thought about Voyager's 'Collective':

Thanks for voting, and please also participate in our new poll, asking you when you first visited TrekToday.

Today On TV

Christian (6:18 pm CST)

-On Monday in the United States, the Sci-Fi Channel will be showing a Star Trek Chain Reaction, beginning at 9:00am Eastern Time with 'Balance of Terror' and ending at 6:00pm with 'Errand of Mercy'.

-On Monday in Canada, Space! will be showing the Original Series' 'The Apple' at 10:00am and at 4:00pm Eastern Time, and DS9's 'The Maquis, Part One' at 10:15pm.

-On Monday in the United Kingdom, Sky One will be showing Voyager's 'Concerning Flight' at 17:00 and at 0:00 GMT, and DS9's 'Strange Bedfellows' at 20:00. Thanks go out to Kathryn Hughes for this!

-On Monday in Germany, Sat.1 will be showing Voyager's 'Der Zeitstrom' at 15:00 CET.

Trek BBS Today

Christian (6:18 pm CST)

Here are some of the topics being discussed at the Trek BBS today:

-What day of the week is your Star Trek day?

-How do you think the upcoming Voyager episode 'Spirit Folk' will turn out?

Find more topics at the Trek BBS!

Hello World!

Christian (6:18 pm CST)

Apologies for not getting a mirror of the 'Spirit Folk' promo up yet - my net connection has been really slow over the past few days, so I haven't yet been able to download it and transfer it to the site.

Saturday February 19, 2000

More 'Down To Earth' Wesley Strips

Christian (7:21 pm CST)

After already featuring an appearance by Voyager and Wesley Crusher a few weeks ago, the daily online comic strip Down To Earth once again deals with the adventures of everyone's favourite ensign, Wesley Crusher. This time, the Enterprise and the Next Generation crew are also featured in the cartoons, which you can find here.

Roddenberry Jr. Talks 'Andromeda'

Christian (7:20 pm CST)

A few months ago, Eugene W. Roddenberry did not react very enthusiastic in an interview about 'Andromeda', the new series based on his father's notes and headed by former DS9 writer Robert Hewitt Wolfe. Now, SyFy World has posted an email from Roddenberry Jr., in which he explains this reaction:

[For] the most part, the rumor that I am disappointed is false. Being so emotionally involved in these series simply causes me to have great concern when someone else is running the show. It's defensive, almost like an involuntary response.

Having spent more time with the people involved and reading the material released thus far, I am very pleased with the direction the series is going. I feel strongly that it will be a great sci-fi action series that promotes interest and thought.

You can visit SyFy World by going here.

'Armada' Borg Collective Page

Christian (7:20 pm CST)

Over at the official 'Star Trek: Armada' game site, they've put up a page with info about the Borg Collective, including a first look at many of their ships and weapons. Some of their units look really great, such as the obvious 'Assimilator', but also the Borg's apparent ability to use Nanites. The info page can be found here.

Struycken On Dutch Television

Christian (7:20 pm CST)

According to the Dutch free newspaper Sp!ts, Carel Struycken, who appeared as Lwaxana Troi's assistant Mr. Homm on several episodes of 'The Next Generation', has just signed a contract to appear as host of a popular science program on Dutch television. The show he'll be hosting is called 'Space Bar', 13 episodes of which will be aired by the television association BNN. Thanks go out to Dick de Jager for this!

New Sev Trek Cartoon

Christian (7:19 pm CST)

Roddenberry Assistant Launches Site

Christian (7:19 pm CST)

TrekWeb is reporting about a new site opened by Susan Sackett, former assistant to Gene Roddenberry, which will be centered around her personal memoirs from her years working with Roddenberry. Here's part of the press release received by TrekWeb:

Ms. Sackett served as Gene Roddenberry's personal assistant from 1974 until his death in 1991. During their years together, these two dynamic people developed an intimate and loving relationship. "Inside Trek" will be an interactive, online book recounting their experiences during those years. Set against the giltz and glamour of Hollywood of the '70s and '80s, "Inside Trek" covers the struggles to get the "Star Trek" movie launched, as well as the development of the highly popular series, "Star Trek: The Next Generation." Her journal will relate the many joys and sorrows the two shared, including never-before-revealed stories from behind the scenes at "Star Trek." Imbedded in the text will be hundreds of clickable photos, links and tidbits of information.

The serialized, online book will be published in twice-monthly installments. There is no charge for the first several installments; to read the entire book, fans will be able to purchase a membership/subscription. It will take nearly a year for all 24 chapters, or "Log Entries," to be posted. Paid members will also be able to "Email Susan" and receive a personal response.

Read more in the full article, or just visit the new site itself.

Upcoming Naomi Wildman Episodes

Christian (7:18 pm CST)

The Official Scarlett Pomers Homepage is reporting that Scarlett Pomers (Naomi Wildman) will be appearing in at least three more 'Voyager' episodes this season: the two Borg episodes 'Ashes To Ashes' and 'Child's Play', and the episode featuring the return of Kes, 'Fury'. The site has also launched its massive Spring giveaway, offering you the chance to win several great prizes.

Starfleet Command Bonus Missions

Christian (7:18 pm CST)

IGN PC, they've put up two sets of new missions for 'Starfleet Command', Interplay's recent strategy game. The sets come as 700K zip files, and offfer you three new Romulan or seven new Hydran Elite missions. Click here to download them. Thanks go out to Evil Avatar for the link!

SciFi.Com Interviews Takei

Christian (7:18 pm CST)

Over at SciFi.com, the official web site of the Sci-Fi Channel, Patrick Lee has put up an interview with George Takei (Hikaru Sulu). The interview appears to be a fleshed-out version of several recent articles on the Sci-Fi Wire, but it does include a few new questions, including this one:

Are you working on any other SF or Trek projects?

Takei: I do a guest appearance on [the video game] Klingon Academy. There's also an SF genre feature film called Overload, with a very interesting cast. ...[Leave It to Beaver star Tony] Dow is directing it, and [Babylon 5 star] Bill Mumy has co-written the script. ... I'm also very active in the non-profit arena as well. I'm serving as chairman of the board of the Japanese American National Museum. ... I'm also serving as a commissioner on the Japan-U.S. Commission, appointed by President Clinton, which will be taking me to Tokyo in June.

For the full interview, follow this link.

Today On TV

Christian (7:17 pm CST)

-On Sunday in the United States, the Sci-Fi Channel will be showing the Original Series episode 'A Taste Of Armageddon' at 11:00am Eastern Time.

-On Sunday in Canada, Space! will be showing the Original Series' 'Elaan Of Troyius' at 10:00am Eastern Time.

-On Sunday in the United Kingdom, Sky One will be showing DS9's 'Life Support' at 16:00 GMT, followed an hour later by Voyager's 'Random Thoughts'. At 18:45, BBC Two will be showing Voyager's 'Once Upon A Time'.

-The Sat.1 web site appears to be inaccessible at the moment, so there won't be any German TV data today.

-On Sunday here in The Netherlands, RTL 5 will be showing DS9's 'The Quickening' at 17:50 CET.

-On Sunday in Belgium, Kanaal 2 will be showing DS9's 'In The Cards' at 18:05 CET. Thanks go out to StarTrek.nl for this!

Trek BBS Today

Christian (7:17 pm CST)

Below are some of the topics currently being discussed at the Trek BBS:

-What do you think about yesterday's IGN report about the new series?

-Wasn't the idea of self-replicating mines on DS9 simply ridiculous?

Find more topics at the Trek BBS!

Hello World!

Christian (7:16 pm CST)

Public Announcement: This weekend, UGO are performing some service on their ad servers, so if the ads at the top of the page don't load you know the reason. According to the mail they sent out to all their affiliates there shouldn't be any disruptions of ad service, but I thought I'd warn you just in case.

Friday February 18, 2000

Paramount Approves Prequel Series?

Christian (8:07 pm CST)

IGN Sci-Fi has put up a news report which, if true, would mean big news:

Today, reliable reports indicate Paramount has finally zeroed in on the prequel series. Whether or not this series will employ younger versions of characters established in the original series is still unknown, although sources characterize the notion of younger Spock and Co. as "dubious".

The full article on this can be found here. Interestingly, it was written by Glen Oliver, who used to run Ain't It Cool's Coaxial News until a few months ago, which is also the reason I'm reporting about it here. Still, remember that this should still not be considered as anything more than a rumour. Keep in mind that this isn't the first time a Series V concept has been reported to be approved - even Brannon Braga was claiming that months ago, though in the end he appeared to have spoken too soon. Again, hopefully Paramount will put out an official announcement about the new series soon.

Marc Wade Leaves Continuum

Christian (8:06 pm CST)

Following the departure of Guy Vardaman a while ago, Supervising Producer Marc Wade has now also left the staff of the official Star Trek Continuum. Wade has been working on online Star Trek projects more than almost anyone else in the world, according to the farewell article:

Marc came to Paramount from Apple and joined a fledgling unit called the Paramount Media Kitchen in Palo Alto, California. While in Northern California, Marc was a key player in the group that was responsible for creating the first Web site to tie in with a new movie release - "Star Trek Generations." Marc was also instrumental in developing a Web site for what was then a brand new Star Trek show - Star Trek: Voyager.

You can read more in the full farewell message at the Continuum.

Space.com 'Collective' Review

Christian (8:06 pm CST)

Kenneth Silber at Space Imagined has put up his review of 'Collective', Voyager's most recent episode. As usual, the review is split up in a short summary, quotable moments, 'dangling plot threads', and an analysis:

"Collective" is a surprisingly absorbing episode, considering that Borg-related themes have been repeatedly explored on Voyager. The turmoil of adolescence injects a volatile element into the now-familiar psychodrama of post-Borg life, and Seven growing into her maternal responsibilities will be interesting to observe.

Read on here.

Brent Spiner Project Info

Christian (8:06 pm CST)

Today's edition of the USA Today includes a short column by Jeannie Williams, in which she answers reader questions about the world of entertainment. Today, a reader asked her if Brent Spiner (Data) had any projects lined up after 'Gepetto', and if he had finally married his longtime girlfriend Loree McBride. Here's what Williams answered:

Yes, Star Trek's Lt. Cmdr. Data indeed is in the Geppetto cast, along with Drew Carey and Julia Louis-Dreyfus. That's due May 7 on ABC. He also has signed for a project directed by Martha Coolidge. And I hope you didn't miss him last year in Introducing Dorothy Dandridge (for which Halle Berry won an Emmy); he was excellent as her longtime agent.

But the big news is that he's in talks with various Internet companies for a deal that would make use of his technological persona from Trek in the Net world, reports his manager, Bryan Zuriff. Seems like an ideal fit for a yellow-eyed android! Stay tuned for that news. And for any wedding announcement, since that has yet to transpire.

Click here for the original column.

Takei Ready For 'Excelsior'

Christian (8:05 pm CST)

Surprise, surprise! George Takei (Hikaru Sulu) mentioned in an interview with the Sci-Fi Wire that he'd be willing to take on the role of Captain Sulu in a 'Star Trek: Excelsior' series, should Paramount actually be convinced by the new fan campaign:

Takei added that he has been contacted by and supports the fans who are organizing a worldwide demonstration April 22 to persuade Paramount Studios to base a new Trek series on the exploits of Capt. Sulu and his starship, the U.S.S. Excelsior. But Takei said he's not active in the effort.

Nor has Takei held any official talks with Paramount or Rick Berman and Brannon Braga, executive producers of Star Trek: Voyager, the only Trek series currently in production. "It's always [only] after the fans have accomplished their goal that they get in touch with us [actors]," Takei said.

Still, according to Takei the series would have a definite chance of succeeding, as you can read in the full article. Thanks go out to Elaine Butler and Kai Alexis Price for this!

'Secret Agent Man' UPN Premiere

Christian (8:05 pm CST)

AnotherUniverse's Daily Buzz is reporting that UPN will be premiering 'Secret Agent Man', the television show originally scheduled for a Fall 2000 debut, on Tuesday the 7th of March, at 8:00pm. Two weeks later, the new 'The Beat' cop show will launch in the 9:00pm time slot.

Poll Results

Christian (8:04 pm CST)

Below you'll find the results of our most recent TrekToday poll, asking which of the last five Voyager episodes you liked best:

To compare, here are the average TrekToday poll ratings these 5 episodes scored when they first aired:

'Fair Haven' - 6.09

'Blink of an Eye' - 8.50

'Virtuoso' - 6.59

'Memorial' - 7.61

'Tsunkatse' - 6.75

The big winner of the poll is clearly 'Blink of an Eye', gaining nearly 50% of all the votes. When comparing the episode ratings over the year, this episode ranks as the third best episode so far, just below 'Pathfinder' (8.61) and 'One Small Step' (8.58). Unfortunately, none of the other recent episodes appeared to be real winners, as 'Memorial' only occupies a shared 8th place in the year's top-15, and 'Fair Haven' and 'Virtuoso' actually got the worst fan ratings of the season so far. Lastly, 'Tsunkatse' didn't fare much better, occupying a fairly bad 11th place.

In other statistics, the news is equally bad, as the average rating for these five episodes was just a 7.11, compared to a 7.58 for the first five and a 7.82 for the second five episodes. After Voyager's great start this year, the quality of the episodes seems to have taken a major turn for the worse - hopefully the show will do better in the final ten episodes of the season.

Today On TV

Christian (8:03 pm CST)

-On Saturday in Canada, Space! will be showing DS9's 'Civil Defense' at 4:45am Eastern Time and the Original Series' 'Spectre of the Gun' at 10:00am.

-On Saturday in the United Kingdom, Sky One will be showing DS9's 'Past Tense, Part Two' at 16:00 GMT, followed an hour later by Voyager's 'Year Of Hell, Part Two'. Thanks go out to Kathryn Hughes for this!

-On Saturday in Germany, Sat.1 will be showing the Original Series' 'Der alte Traum' (What Are Little Girls Made Of?) at 14:00 CET, and DS9's 'Ein Ungl�ck kommt selten allein' at 16:00 CET.

-On Saturday here in The Netherlands, the AVRO on Nederland 1 will be showing Voyager's 'Riddles' at 18:09 CET. Thanks go out to StarTrek.nl for this!

Trek BBS Today

Christian (8:03 pm CST)

Below are some of the current Trek BBS threads:

-What is your favourite planet or ship ever seen on Star Trek?

-Which one of the three TNG movies did you like best?

More topics can be found at the Trek BBS!

Hello World!

Christian (8:02 pm CST)

Short update, again. Will make up for it tomorrow, again. Sigh. Again.

Thursday February 17, 2000

'Klingon Academy' Demo Delayed

Christian (7:54 pm CST)

Federation HQ is reporting that Interplay's 'Klingon Academy' demo, originally scheduled for yesterday, has been pushed back a few days due to a few last-minute bugs the development team found. On the official Klingon Academy forum, developer Ron Hodge just posted a message explaining the reasons for the delay:

Now, I'm gonna break the situation down for you. During testing today we discovered a repeatable crash and a couple of mission breaking bugs-the kinds of bugs that you don't want to release in your product, at least if you want to build consumer interest in it. We are getting another executable tonight and we will be spending another couple of days testing it. Such are the vagaries of software development, and it cannot be avoided.

A more extensive explanation can be found in the full post.

'Tsunkatse' Final Ratings

Christian (7:49 pm CST)

As was to be expected, last week's 'Tsunkatse' scored a pretty high national rating, according to Greg Fuller's report at the Star Trek Nielsen Ratings Information Database:

"Tsunkatse" gave Voyager an excellent jump on February sweeps, taking a season-high 4.1 rating, 6 share. That's Voyager's highest mark this year and best performance overall since "Dark Frontier" last February. "Tsunkatse" was up from last week's 3.8 mark set by "Memorial" and up from last year's performance from "Gravity," a 4.0/6. Excluding "Dark Frontier," "Tsunkatse" was Voyager's brightest spot since early December, 1998.

Timeslot competition info can be found in the full report.

First Wildstorm TOS Comic

Christian (7:48 pm CST)

The official Star Trek Continuum is reporting that Wildstorm has just released a new Prestige Format comic called 'Star Trek: All of Me', the first TOS comic published by Wildstorm. Here's a short summary of the comic's story:

In "Star Trek: All of Me," the Starship Enterprise is assigned to guard the universe-spanning invention of Armand St. John, an egomaniacal acquaintance of Spock's from his Academy days. St. John long has believed that only Spock even approaches his own brilliance and is eager to demonstrate his masterpiece to the First Officer. But Spock soon realizes that the potential of the invention (designed to seek individuals from alternate universes and draw them to our own) is far outstripped by its risks. "Star Trek: All of Me" will be in comic shops on February 23.

The original article can be found by following this link.

Full Starburst Frakes Interview

Christian (7:48 pm CST)

Nikolas Haynes at Trek Galaxy sends along word he's put up the full version of the Starburst interview with Jonathan Frakes (William T. Riker) mentioned yesterday. In the interview, Frakes also talks a bit about Trek's future:

In a moment, Frakes will have to race into his office for a meeting, so the conversation turns briefly to Star Trek. And it does so briefly not just because Frakes's time is short, but also because there's precious little Trek for Frakes to discuss. He has made it clear that he's open to directing Star Trek X if it ever comes to pass, but that he'd prefer to helm a non-genre film beforehand, lest he forever be labeled a genre director. Given his busy slate of self-generated projects, it's also unlikely that Frakes will be directing episodes of Voyager any time soon. Frakes, however, knows that he owes much of his current success to Star Trek. And, as a result, he remains deeply loyal to the franchise, to Trek boss Rick Berman and to the fans that are supporting him as he jumps from one project to the next. "I've heard 2001 for the next series and next film, if Paramount gives Rick [Berman] the OK," Frakes concludes. "I think a year off, without a Star Trek series, would make the audience hungry for more. Don't you? I thought they might have gone to the well once too often when they had Deep Space Nine, Voyager and The Next Generation films all going at once. A break could be a good thing. That would also create more excitement for the next movie, whatever it is."

Find more in the full interview.

Spahn On Local UPN Station

Christian (7:48 pm CST)

BORG just sent in the below report, dealing with an appearance by Ryan Spahn (from 'Collective') on the local UPN affiliate in Detroit:

Ryan Spahn, the brown wavy haired 19 year old actor who played the adolescent Borg who assumed the command roll of the collective in "Collective" was featured on the 10 O'clock UPN 50 news here in Detroit Michigan because he is a native. The report featured a brief interview with the actor who spoke about the costume and his future in Hollywood. He mentioned how the costume simultaneously pulled down on his shoulders while pushing up from his abdomen. And everytime he tried to sit down, something would rip.

He described the first day of work as very difficult. He was accompanied by his Uncle who is a very big "Star Trek" fan and provided his nephew with several episodes of "Star Trek". After having studied the Borg, Ryan Spahn was surprised to learn that he wasn't suppose to play the typical monosyllabic emotionless drone. When speaking about his future in Hollywood, he mentioned that a single roll isn't going to secure his future in the business but 'it all helps'. He's currently in Hollywood searching for other career opportunities because it is 'pilot season'.

In addition, the news program reported from a large party at a local restaurant in which many of Spahn's family and friends, including his uncle, were dressed up in costumes and makeup and watching the episode and news report on a big screen.

The official web site of the television station can be found here. Major thanks go out to BORG for sending this in!

Jeri Ryan Chat Transcript

Christian (7:47 pm CST)

Over at the official Jeri Lynn Ryan Homepage, they've put up the transcript of yesterday's AOL chat with Jeri Ryan (Seven of Nine). Here are two of the most interesting questions from the chat:

Question: Hi, Jeri. This is Greg and Angela with your official fan club/homepage. Can you tell us more about The Kid?

TVG Jeri: Hi Guys. It's actually basically a cameo in the movie. It's just a few scenes with Bruce WIllis and one with Larry King. I've only shot one day on it so far. I go back next month to finish up.That's about all I've had time for during the shooting season.

Question: Ms Ryan: How do you feel about the likelihood that Voyager will be brought back to the Alpha quadrant at the end of this season or early next? How will Seven adapt?

TVG Jeri: Someone obviously has more info than I do. I don't know that we're getting back to the Alpha quadrant. I think it would be great. The producers are interested for a while now, but the studio is putting the brakes on getting us home. I love to see it happen sometime before the series finally. I'd want to see what happens to Seven and undoubtedly see how her relatives on Earth would react to her and what would she do with herself.

It's interesting to hear that it's actually the studio that's preventing Voyager from coming home, and not the producers. Anyway, click here for the full transcript, which I was pointed to by Gustavo Leao.

'Collective' Tube Review

Christian (7:47 pm CST)

Over at Eon Magazine's Tube Reviews, Jeff Bond has uploaded his review of 'Collective', yesterday's new Voyager episode. Awarding it a C, Bond wasn't too happy with the episode:

Ah, STAR TREK and kids...they go together like, uh, matter and anti-matter. Ever since the fifth year of TNG, TREK has been tempted by the appeal of adorable moppets, something the original series wisely kept to a mere two episodes out of 79 ("Miri" and "And the Children Shall Lead"). Unfortunately, while it's wise to acknowledge that youngsters do have a place in the STAR TREK universe, using them for easy sympathy and taking advantage of their irrepressible cuteness can only lead to disaster...or at least annoyance. "Collective" seems to be skirmish number ten or so in TREK's strange campaign to demystify and declaw the once mighty and terrifying Borg.

The full review can be read by following this link.

'Armada' Designer Diary

Christian (7:47 pm CST)

Computer Games Online has posted the second installment in a series of 'Star Trek: Armada' development diaries, written by the game's Lead Programmer Ian Davis. In the diary, he mentions that the game is actually pretty close to being finished:

With less than a month left, we're still busy as hell, but the accomplishments dwarf the tasks left. I've had the rare opportunity to play the game a fair amount in the last two weeks while testing AI in multi-player games, so I have some perspective on the game, and I can tell you that I can't wait to finish writing this so I can go force Matthew Nordhaus to take his Borg-ass ships out of my Federation neighborhood in a multiplayer game. Of course, the AI Klingons might just mop up the galaxy with the both of us.

Click here for the full diary. In related news, the game's official site has put up a 640*480 version of the game's trailer. Thanks go out to Blue for this!

Mania 'Collective' Review

Christian (7:47 pm CST)

Michelle Erica Green at AnotherUniverse's Mania Magazine has put up a new edition of her Hailing Frequencies column, also featuring a review of yesterday's 'Collective'. Here's how she starts her review:

One of the oft-heard criticisms about the women of The Next Generation is that, once Tasha Yar was killed off, all the major female characters were defined primarily as nurturers. Troi and Crusher had their moments of strength, but to a large degree they were limited by their sensitive, coddling, maternal roles. When Voyager came on the air, Kes was the only female in such a position; ironically, I feared that with her loss, all the women would become stereotypes of tough gals, with the rigid Captain, the angry Klingon, and the stronger-than-steel Borg overwhelming the Samantha Wildmans of the 24th century.

Instead we have Momma Janeway, Sweetheart B'Elanna, and now Nanny Seven. Forgive me, but watching her with the Borg kids, all I could think about was Babysitter Barbie, who comes with a cute little baby doll but wears outfits about as appropriate for watching kids as Seven's is for fixing warp conduits. The emerging arc with the kids may add a new dimension to her character, but must the writers confine all women into nurturing roles? No matter how sick I was of the all-powerful Seven of Nine who saved the ship every week, I've never wanted to see her give it up to raise babies.

The full column also contains a 'Collective' summary, a review of last year's 'Double Helix' novel series, and several assorted Trek news bits.

'X-Men' Trailer Released

Christian (7:46 pm CST)

During yesterday's edition of Entertainment Tonight, the trailer of the upcoming 'X-Men' film was finally shown. At the same time, two versions of the trailer were posted on the official web site. Of course, the trailer includes lots of shots showing Patrick Stewart (Jean-Luc Picard), who stars in the film as Professor X. You can find the trailer at the official site, or read a summary on Cinescape.

Starfleet Command Wins EA Award

Christian (7:46 pm CST)

The people at gaming site Evil Avatar just announced their 1999 Game of the Year awards, and Interplay's 'Starfleet Command' was chosen as the year's best strategy game:

Now here's a surprise! The first good Star Trek computer game in one long-ass time! And good enough to snatch our first award for Strategy Game of the Year, to boot! What with all the recent flops being Next Generation era crappola, it was a double bonus that this game focused on the good old Kirk and Spock days, when diplomacy via Phaser fire was the order of the day (you younger punks are probably laughing, but Kirk and Spock would mop the floor with the likes of Picard and Riker, Sisko and Kira, or Janeway and Chakotay, so don't push us!).

Click here for the full list.

Stewart Hosts Windows 2000 Launch

Christian (7:46 pm CST)

During the official product launch of Microsoft's new Windows 2000 operating system, Patrick Stewart (Jean-Luc Picard) apparently appeared to co-host the event, along with Microsoft chairman Bill Gates. Stewart acted out several short comedy skits, some of them consisting of interplays between Stewart and Gates. A report on the launch by Reuters can be read here, while a webcast of the actual event can be found here. Thanks go out to Jose Gonzalez for this!

UPN Dumps 'Dilbert'

Christian (7:46 pm CST)

Michael Schneider and Josef Adalian at Variety have written an article about several program cancellations by the WB and UPN. UPN has apparently decided to cancel the animated 'Dilbert' series:

As for ``Dilbert,'' UPN recently announced plans to put the show on hiatus next month to make room for new cop drama ``The Beat,'' leaving open the possibility that the toon would return at a later date. ``Dilbert'' may still return for a summer run, but UPN is no longer expected to order additional episodes of the show, essentially killing it.

More on the WB's program purges can be found here. Thanks go out to Jeff 'Koganuts' Koga for the link!

Decent 'Collective' Overnight Ratings

Christian (7:46 pm CST)

Greg Fuller at the Star Trek Nielsen Ratings Information Database just put up the Overnight Ratings report for yesterday's 'Collective'. Though the episode didn't perform as well as 'Tsunkatse', it still achieved some pretty good ratings:

"Collective" earned a respectable mark for Voyager, logging a 4.8 rating, 7 share. That's significantly down from last week's show (either reported rating), but still above the ratings Voyager was turning in before sweeps began.

Click here for the full report.

Happy Birthday!

Christian (7:46 pm CST)

Today is the 33rd birthday of Michelle Forbes, who appeared several times on 'The Next Generation' as the Bajoran Ensign Ro Laren.

Today On TV

Christian (7:45 pm CST)

-On Friday in the United States, the Sci-Fi Channel will be showing the Original Series episode 'Space Seed' at 4:00pm Eastern Time.

-On Friday in Canada, Space! will be showing DS9's 'The Abandoned' at 4:00am Eastern Time, the Original Series' 'Assignment: Earth' at 10:00am and 4:00pm, and DS9's 'Civil Defense' at 10:00pm.

-On Friday in the United Kingdom, Sky One will be showing Voyager's 'Year Of Hell, Part One' at 17:00 GMT. Thanks go out to Kathryn Hughes for this!

-On Friday in Germany, Sat.1 will be showing Voyager's 'Elogium' at 15:00 CET.

Trek BBS Today

Christian (7:45 pm CST)

Below you'll find some of the topics currently being discussed at the Trek BBS:

-Here's the first 'Collective' spoiler thread from nearly a week ago, as well as a more recent review thread. Lastly, here's a little nitpick of the episode.

-What are some of your favourite canceled television shows?

More topics can be found at the Trek BBS!

Hello World!

Christian (7:45 pm CST)

Today I crossed the line. As of this afternoon, 16:26 CET, I have no other choice but to think of myself as a geek. At that time, I was working on the new server, and wanted to visit the TrekToday site, so I typed in the site's IP number. It was only after reaching the site that I realised that, for the first time, I actually knew my own IP number by heart. I wonder what's next... maybe a month from now I'll actually be typing this in Linux or FreeBSD or another such obscure operating system. (Hmmm... I wonder what the fact that I even know those operating systems exist says about me)

Grumble of the Day: Remember me talking about winning my first game of 'Colonists of Catan' a few days ago when a friend had just taught me the game? Well, e played again. I lost. And I had a bet I'd post a public congratulation if that friend won. So here it is. Grumble.

Wednesday February 16, 2000

Mania Interviews Majel Barrett

Christian (6:56 pm CST)

Michelle Erica Green has put up a fascinating interview with Majel Barrett-Roddenberry, in which she talks about her producer job on 'Earth: Final Conflict' and the upcoming 'Andromeda' series, as well as her thoughts on the current state of Star Trek. The interview contains some very interesting new information about 'Andromeda':

Barrett describes the series as action-adventure about a starship captain who has had one of the biggest, most powerful ships in the universe. "But he's been in a long sleep - a three hundred year sleep. He's a real Rip Van Winkle, because he slipped into a slipstream that held him for 300 years. He comes back to life through this group of mercenaries who get on board and think it's plunder, and they find out, uh-oh, we just woke up the sleeping giant!"

[...]

The series, continues Barrett, "totally lends itself to excitement. The ship is a very strange ship - it's alive - so one of the most important characters is going to be the character of Andromeda. There will be an actor involved who might look like a hologram; we're not sure exactly how she's going to look but she will definitely be there. That's the way Gene wrote it, and we're finding out that it's an awful lot of fun to work with."

The premise? "It's getting back to the Commonwealth," Barrett explains. "The Commonwealth was a beautiful organization of worlds 300 years ago, when the captain went to sleep. Now that he has woken up, there is no Commonwealth - it's been rent asunder. So his goal is to put the Commonwealth back into good shape again, to make sure that all of the galaxies can have a central point to operate from. We'll be meeting a lot of strange people, a lot of strange animals. We've got some really wild characters!"

In the full interview, Barrett also talks about the recent Series V report (which she apparently also just heard as rumours), and how she feels about the future of the Trek franchise.

Jammer's 'Tsunkatse' Review

Christian (6:56 pm CST)

Jamahl Epsicokhan at Star Trek: Hypertext has put up his review of 'Tsunkatse', last week's new Voyager episode. Here's how he starts his review:

When you have an episode that comes billed by its trailers as "America's Smackdown Hero takes on Voyager's Battlestar Babe," let's just say that one doesn't exactly go in with the highest of expectations. I'll be honest: I was expecting this episode to be a cynical ratings-stunt disaster. (And besides, with this episode having aired the same week as Homicide: The Movie, how can I honestly say I cared about what Voyager was up to?)

All things considered, "Tsunkatse" is surprisingly okay. I'm hardly thrilled with it, but as an hour of lightweight entertainment, it fares reasonably and is not quite as dumb as the trailers make it look. It's average fare--a workable mix of lowbrow action-violence exploitation and middlebrow (if way-too-familiar) themes on violence.

In the full review, the episode is awarded 2.5 out of 4 stars.

Julia Houston's Wishes Come True

Christian (6:56 pm CST)

Over at About.com's Star Trek Fans, Julia Houston has put up a new featured article, praising Voyager for making many of the fans' long-time wishes come true this season:

Last week, to my surprise, my over-two-years-old article on Seven of Nine was featured in About.com's newsletter. In the article, I praise Seven's character, but complain that the show pushes her at us too insistently as an object of sexual beauty instead of a personality-driven character. When I reread the article last week, I realized that I haven't felt that way about Seven in quite a while, and I started wondering what other complaints and wishes I've had about Voyager have either become obsolete or come true in Season Six.

Now, don't get me wrong. I'm not so far gone as a fan that I think Star Trek is reading my mind -- let alone my articles -- and I certainly had no intentions of making predictions. But one of the best things about loving a show is having hopes about what might happen in the future, and one of the even better things is noticing when some of those hopes are coincidentally realized. Besides, maybe some of my hopes have matched some of yours, so why not celebrate together?

Click here for the full article.

Berman On Series V

Christian (6:56 pm CST)

Section 31 just posted an excerpt from issue #127 of the official Star Trek Communicator, which featured a short interview with Trek'