2017 Steven Culp confirmed that in 2011 he filmed a series of commercials for AT&T. They were shown in select markets on the East Coast and the Midwest. If one of them aired in your area and you recorded it by any chance, I would greatly appreciate it if you forward a copy. Oct 8, 2017

As previously announced, Steven Culp will appear on an episode of "The Orville"

The episode will be shown on Oct 26, 2017 on FOX.

Synopsis:

ED AND THE CREW FACE THE MAJORITY ON AN ALL-NEW "THE ORVILLE" THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, ON FOX

When two Union anthropologists go missing on a planet similar to 21st century Earth, Ed sends a team led by Kelly to find them, but the mission quickly goes awry when they realize the society's government is completely based on a public voting system to determine punishment in the all-new "Majority Rule" episode of THE ORVILLE airing Thursday, Oct. 26 (9:01-10:00 PM ET) on FOX. (ORV-107) (TV-14 D, L, V)

Cast: Seth MacFarlane as Captain Ed Mercer; Adrianne Palicki as Commander Kelly Grayson; Penny Johnson Jerald as Dr. Claire Finn; Scott Grimes as Lieutenant Gordon Malloy; Peter Macon as Lieutenant Commander Bortus; Halston Sage as Chief Security Officer Alara Kitan; J Lee as Lieutenant John Lamarr; Mark Jackson as Isaac

Guest Cast: Ron Canada as Admiral Tucker, Giorgia Whigham as Lysella, Loren Lester as Lewis, Barry Livingston as Tom, *Steven Culp as Willks*

Oct 30, 2017 edited to add:

(October 27, 2017, variety.com, by Joe Otterson)

Fox sci-fi series "The Orville" is currently up in both measures in the Thursday overnight ratings, drawing its best numbers since its second episode.

According to Nielsen data, "The Orville" averaged a 1.2 rating on adults 18-49 and 4.2 million viewers, up by over 20 percent in both measures compared to its last original episode two weeks ago. That is also the third-highest night on record for the freshman series, with the next highest being Episode 2, which drew a 2.2 and 6.6 million viewers.

Sep 12, 2017

As previously announced, Steven was scheduled to attend the "Not So Desperate Convention" in Paris, France, next year.

Unfortunately, the convention was cancelled today... :-(

Source: facebook.com/ASCEvents/ - Sep 12, 2017

Hello,

We are coming to you today for a difficult announcement, we have spent a lot of time looking for solutions, but it is with a heavy heart that we announce the cancellation of our two conventions "Not So Desperate" and "Amazing Surgeon Conventions ".

First of all, we would like to say that we would never have taken the risk of announcing such events if we did not have serious, solid and positive feedback on the presence of actors to these conventions.

Unfortunately, we had tough obstacles to overcome for our two conventions. Since our last announcement we have done everything to keep the conventions alive, we fought but the exchanges with the agents became more difficult. The agents decided unilaterally to revisit the negotiations, and it was impossible for us to follow these new negotiations without you suffering from the tariffs.

[...]

The association ASC Events does not close its doors, we did not say our last word. We learn from the obstacles that have stood in our way, and we will emerge stronger for our future projects. After the end of the refunds (and only after all the refunds), we will look at a project on a human scale, because despite our cancellations we have kept very good contacts with some agents, so it is not finished... To be continued...

Another big thank you to the team of ASC Events... and as they say "Show must go on…"

Thanks,

ASC Events Team Jul 9, 2017

As previously announced, Steven Culp will attend the "Not So Desperate Convention" in Paris, France, next year.

However, the dates of the convention were changed to September 22-23, 2018.

According to ASC Events, the host of the convention, Steven confirmed this week that he is available for the new dates!

Source: facebook.com/ASCEvents/ - July 7, 2017

Hi everyone,

After many and long negociations with agents and actors we made the decision to change the date of the event «Not So Desperate Convention»! The event will take place on the 22th and 23th of September 2018 in Paris.

If we change the date of our convention it is to prepare you a convention of quality with guests that you wish to meet. We are expecting guest contracts that would please many of you!

Tuc Watkins and Steven Culp confirmed this week that they are available for the new dates! Unfortunately Cody Kasch will not be able to be with us. For all people who have bought extras with Cody: refunds have been requested and you will be refunded next weekend!

For the convention "Amazing Surgeons Convention": We were very well advanced for the first contracts...

Stay tuned!

Thank you all guys.

ASC Events Team.

Jul 9, 2017

Steven Culp will be part of the reading of the play "We Will Not Be Silent." It takes place at the Fountain Theater in Los Angeles on July 20, 2017.

For more information.

Jun 18, 2017

Steven Culp will attend the "Not So Desperate Convention."

The convention takes place from April 28 until April 29, 2018 in Paris, France.

The venue will be announced as soon as possible.

For more information visit the website of the convention.

From their website:

This is a two-day event during a week-end (Saturday and Sunday) during which you will be able to meet your favorite actors. This is an opportunity for you to take picture with them, to get an autograph, to talk to them or even to ask them questions. May 22, 2017 According to IMDb, Steven Culp will appear on the first season of the FOX series "The Orville."

Steven Culp will play Willks.

From Emmy Award-winning executive producer and creator Seth MacFarlane (FAMILY GUY, "Ted") and directed by Jon Favreau ("The Jungle Book," "Iron Man"), THE ORVILLE is a one-hour science fiction series set 400 years in the future that follows the adventures of the U.S.S. Orville, a mid-level exploratory vessel. Its crew, both human and alien, faces the wonders and dangers of outer space, while also dealing with the familiar, often humorous problems of regular people in a workplace…even though some of those people are from other planets, and the workplace is a faster-than-light spaceship. May 12, 2017

Actor Steven Culp has joined SCR's AIP

Steven Culp has joined South Coast Repertory's Acting Intensive Program, teaching acting for the camera this summer.

(May 11, 2017 SCR.org)

This summer, actor Steven Culp joins the faculty of "The Acting Intensive Program." He's appeared at SCR in The Parisian Woman and on TV in "Desperate Housewives." Culp will teach acting for the camera in SCR's intensive summer program.

For more information.

Apr 28, 2017 Steven Culp has joined the cast of the the six-part event series "Waco" that will be part of the inaugural slate launching Viacom's Paramount Network in January 2018.

Steven Culp will play FBI agent Jeff Jamar, who served as the siege commander during Waco.

Filming is underway in Santa Fe, New Mexico.

Synopsis: The FBI and ATF seize religious leader, David Koresh's Branch Davidian compound in Waco, Texas in the spring of 1993.

For more information. Apr 15, 2017 According to IMDb, Steven Culp will appear on the fifth season of the TNT series "The Last Ship."

Steven Culp will play President Joshua Reiss.

As soon as there are further information, they will be posted here. Mar 29, 2017 * According to the Creation Entertainment website, Steven Culp will appear at the Official Star Trek convention

Location: The Rio Suites Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada

Convention takes place: from August 2 until August 6, 2017.

The exact date when Steven will be there is not known yet, but will be posted as soon as possible.

* Apr 15, 2017 - edited to add:

Steven is scheduled to appear on Sunday, August 6, 2017.

(March 31, 2017, by TrekNews.net)

Creation Entertainment has announced several additions to the annual Las Vegas Star Trek Convention.

This week, Star Trek: Voyager's Robert Beltran, along with several Star Trek guest actors, including Richard Herd (Admiral Paris), Bobby Clark (The Gorn), Daniel Stewart (Young Batai), Samantha Eggar (Marie Picard), Steven Culp (Major Hayes), Rosalind Allen (Yanar) and Camille Saviola (Kai Opaka) were announced for the five-day event.

Star Trek visual effects artist Doug Drexler and TNG composer Ron Jones have also been added.

Previously announced guests include William Shatner, George Takei, Kate Mulgrew, Patrick Stewart, Karl Urban, Nichelle Nichols, Walter Koenig, Jonathan Frakes, Brent Spiner, LeVar Burton, Marina Sirtis, Gates McFadden, Michael Dorn, Denise Crosby, John de Lancie, David Warner, Terry Farrell, Nana Visitor, Connor Trinneer, Robert Picardo, Ethan Phillips, Tim Russ, Robert Duncan McNeill, Denise Crosby, Armin Shimerman, Max Grodenchik, Vaughn Armstrong, Jeffrey Combs, Casey Biggs, and more.

Returning for the fifth consecutive year to the Rio Suites Hotel, the 2017 Las Vegas Star Trek Convention will be spread over five days — kicking off Wednesday, August 2 and running through Sunday, August 6.

For a complete guest list and to purchase tickets, visit Creation Entertainment.

2016 Oct 21, 2016 Steven will appear on the episode "Hero Complex" (2x06) of the CBS series "Code Black" on November 9, 2016.

Official Press Release:

MALAYA MUST INFORM A PATIENT THAT SHE'S BEEN SEXUALLY ASSAULTED, AND WILLIS AND CAMPBELL BUTT HEADS OVER A TERMINALLY ILL WOMAN WHO WANTS TO DIE ON HER OWN TERMS, ON "CODE BLACK," WEDNESDAY, NOV. 9

Annabeth Gish Guest Stars as Geraldine, the Mother of the Terminally Ill Girl, Richard Lewis Guest Stars as Stewart, a Stand-Up Comedian Who Collapsed While on Stage and Steven Culp Returns as Desmond Leighton, Angus and Mike's Father

"Hero Complex" – Malaya must inform a college student who regains consciousness at Angels Memorial that she's the victim of a rape, and Willis and Campbell butt heads over a terminally ill woman who wants to end her life on her own terms, on CODE BLACK, Wednesday, Nov. 9 (10:00-11:00 PM, ET/PT), on the CBS Television Network. Annabeth Gish guest stars as Geraldine, the mother of the terminally ill girl; Richard Lewis guest stars as Stewart, a stand-up comedian who collapsed while on stage, and Steven Culp returns as Desmond Leighton, Angus and Mike's father.

REGULAR CAST: Marcia Gay Harden (Dr. Leanne Rorish), Boris Kodjoe (Dr. Will Campbell), Melanie Chandra (Dr. Malaya Pineda), Harry Ford (Dr. Angus Leighton), Benjamin Hollingsworth (Dr. Mario Savetti), Jillian Murray (Dr. Heather Pinkney), William Allen Young (Dr. Rollie Guthrie), WITH: Luis Guzmán (Jesse Sallander), Rob Lowe (Col. Ethan Willis)

RECURRING CAST: Tommy Dewey (Dr. Mike Leighton), Noah Gray-Cabey (Dr. Elliot Dixon), Emily Tyra (Dr. Noa Kean)

GUEST CAST: Jonna Walsh (Whitney Lithwick), Steven Culp (Desmond Leighton), Annabeth Gish (Geraldine Lithwick), True O'Brien (Joy Samton), Mark L. Young (Justin Keller), Jenna Boyd (Vanessa), Richard Lewis (Stewart Gough), Allan Havey (Dennis), Kevin Jackson (Morty), Nefe Iredia (Paramedic #1), Chase Gabrielson (Paramedic #2), Raquel Bell (Paramedic #3), Alex Peavey (Seth Greer)

WRITTEN BY: Kayla Alpert, DIRECTED BY: David Von Ancken Oct 14, 2016 Steven will appear on the episode "Demons and Angels" (2x04) of the CBS series "Code Black" on October 26, 2016.

Official Press Release:

ON HALLOWEEN NIGHT, WILLIS, NOA AND ELLIOTT RUSH TO THE SCENE OF A FIRE AT A HAUNTED THEATER, ON "CODE BLACK," WEDNESDAY, OCT. 26

Kathleen Rose Perkins Returns as Dr. Amanda Nolan, A Psychiatrist at Angel's Memorial

"Demons and Angels" – On Halloween night, Willis, Noa and Elliott rush to the scene of a fire at a haunted theater, where Dr. Nolan (Kathleen Rose Perkins) and her boyfriend's son are trapped, on CODE BLACK, Wednesday, Oct. 26 (10:00-11:00 PM, ET/PT), on the CBS Television Network.

REGULAR CAST: Marcia Gay Harden (Dr. Leanne Rorish), Boris Kodjoe (Dr. Will Campbell), Melanie Chandra (Dr. Malaya Pineda), Harry Ford (Dr. Angus Leighton), Benjamin Hollingsworth (Dr. Mario Savetti), Jillian Murray (Dr. Heather Pinkney), William Allen Young (Dr. Rollie Guthrie), WITH: Luis Guzmán (Jesse Sallander), Rob Lowe (Col. Ethan Willis)

RECURRING CAST: Tommy Dewey (Dr. Mike Leighton), Noah Gray-Cabey (Dr. Elliot Dixon), Emily Tyra (Dr. Noa Kean), Nafessa Williams (Dr. Charlotte Piel)

GUEST CAST: Steven Culp (Desmond Leighton), Kathleen Rose Perkins (Dr. Amanda Nolan), Abigail Klein (Nurse Eloise), Joshua Keller Katz (Paramedic #1), Brooklyn Silzer (Erica Flynn), Duncan Joiner (Ian Renwick), Jessica Leigh Gonzales (Paramedic #3), Joey Honsa (Cheryl), Joshua Hoffman (Tyler), Mary Kate Wiles (Betsy), Ava Davila (Mini Jessamine), Terrence Edwards (Paramedic), Matthew Staley (Logan Green), Jeffrey Damnit (Skull Face), Brenda Arteaga-Walsh (Mom), Bradley Snedeker (John Renwick)

WRITTEN BY: Michael Brandon Guercio, DIRECTED BY: Luis Prieto Oct 7, 2016 Steven will appear on the episode "Corporeal Form" (2x03) of the CBS series "Code Black" on October 12, 2016.

Official Press Release:

WILLIS DISOBEYS CAMPBELL WHEN HE HELPS MARIO AND HEATHER PERFORM A RADICAL PROCEDURE ON A MAINTENANCE WORKER TRAPPED UNDER A BOILER, ON "CODE BLACK," WEDNESDAY, OCT. 12

Steven Culp Returns as Dr. Desmond Leighton, Angus' and Mike's Father.

Kathleen Rose Perkins Guest Stars as Psychiatrist Dr. Amanda Nolan

"Corporeal Form" – Willis defies Campbell's orders when he helps Mario and Heather perform a radical procedure on a maintenance worker stuck under a boiler that exploded. Also, Angus' father, Dr. Desmond Leighton (Steven Culp), tries to seize Power of Attorney over Mike, who is still in a coma, even though Mike granted that right to his brother, Angus, on CODE BLACK, Wednesday, Oct. 12 (10:00-11:00 PM, ET/PT), on the CBS Television Network. Kathleen Rose Perkins guest stars as psychiatrist Dr. Amanda Nolan.

REGULAR CAST: Marcia Gay Harden (Dr. Leanne Rorish), Boris Kodjoe (Dr. Will Campbell), Melanie Chandra (Dr. Malaya Pineda), Harry Ford (Dr. Angus Leighton), Benjamin Hollingsworth (Dr. Mario Savetti), Jillian Murray (Dr. Heather Pinkney), William Allen Young (Dr. Rollie Guthrie), WITH: Luis Guzmán (Jesse Sallander), Rob Lowe (Col. Ethan Willis)

RECURRING CAST: Tommy Dewey (Dr. Mike Leighton), Noah Gray-Cabey (Dr. Elliot Dixon), Emily Tyra (Dr. Noa Kean), Nafessa Williams (Dr. Charlotte Piel)

GUEST CAST: Steven Culp (Dr. Desmond Leighton), Kathleen Rose Perkins (Dr. Amanda Nolan), Chelsea Rendon (Anita), Billy Malone (Barry), Laura Regan (Janie), Seth Carr (Zane Jacobson), Jamil Walker Smith (Eric), Sherri Saum (Shawna), Joshua Weinstein (Xander Westin), Meredith Quill (Karen Chapman), Rene Rosado (Julio Nortes), Omar Leyva (Taco Truck Guy), Rolando Molina (Maintenance Man), Cuyle Carvin (Fire Rescue)

WRITTEN BY: David Von Ancken, DIRECTED BY: Corey Evett and Matthew Partney Sep 23, 2016 Steven will appear on the episode "Second Year" (2x01) of the CBS series "Code Black" on Septeber 28, 2016.

Official Press Release:

COLONEL ETHAN WILLIS JOINS THE ANGELS MEMORIAL TEAM AND TAKES A HARROWING HELICOPTER RIDE WITH DR. MIKE LEIGHTON TO SAVE SHARK BITE VICTIMS IN MALIBU, ON THE SECOND SEASON PREMIERE OF "CODE BLACK," WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 28

Rob Lowe Joins the Cast as Military Doctor Colonel Ethan Willis

"Second Year" – Colonel Ethan Willis (Rob Lowe) joins the team at Angels Memorial from the Department of Defense and takes Dr. Mike Leighton on a harrowing helicopter ride to save shark bite victims in Malibu, on the second season premiere of CODE BLACK, Wednesday, Sept. 28 (10:00-11:00PM, ET/PT), on the CBS Television Network. Rob Lowe joins the series as Colonel Ethan Willis who comes on board at the hospital to teach the staff new techniques and technologies used on the combat field.

REGULAR CAST: Marcia Gay Harden (Dr. Leanne Rorish), Boris Kodjoe (Dr. Will Campbell), Melanie Chandra (Dr. Malaya Pineda), Harry Ford (Dr. Angus Leighton), Benjamin Hollingsworth (Dr. Mario Savetti), Jillian Murray (Dr. Heather Pinkney), William Allen Young (Dr. Rollie Guthrie), WITH: Luis Guzmán (Jesse Sallander), Rob Lowe (Col. Ethan Willis)

RECURRING CAST: Tommy Dewey (Dr. Mike Leighton), Noah Gray-Cabey (Dr. Elliot Han), Emily Tyra (Dr. Noa Kean), Nafessa Williams (Dr. Charlotte Piel)

GUEST CAST: Angela Relucio (Nurse Risa), Emily Nelson (Hannah Reynolds), Steven Culp (Mr. Leighton), George Lako (Flight Medic #1), Brandon Lynch (Flight Medic #2), Emma Engle (Kaya), Madalyn Horcher (Jaydin), Nefe Iredia (Paramedic), Robert Romanus (Henry Underwood), Mike Erwin (Randall Underwood), Bianca Collins (Chelsea Underwood), Julie Ann Emery (Debbie Kobling), Angela Fornero (Post-Op Nurse), Kristina Guerrero (Field Reporter)

WRITTEN BY: Michael Seitzman, DIRECTED BY: Loni Peristere Sep 15, 2016 News from Steven Culp himself:

(Thank you, Steven!)

Steven gave an update on some upcoming projects:

* Steven will not only be in the second season premiere of "Code Black" he also filmed episodes #s 203, 204 and 206 (!!!)

* Steven returns to "Bosch" in the third season. He has already shot episode #s 301 and 302 and will be filming #s 305 and 306 starting mid-September. Jul 15, 2016 According to IMDb, Steven will appear on the second season premiere of the CBS medical drama "Code Black" on September 28, 2016. Mar 29, 2016 News from Steven Culp himself:

(Thank you, Steven!)

Steven gave an update on some upcoming projects:

* In the movie "The Las Word" Steven plays the dad of Amanda Seyfried's part. He had a wonderful time working with Amanda and the director, Mark Pellington.

* Steven shot an episode of George Lopez's new show that airs on the TVLand network and that had its premiere on March 20th, 2016. He thinks the script said #7, but by the time it's aired the order may change.

* Steven will be part of the play The City of Conversation at the The Wallis Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts in Beverly Hills from May 17 until June 4, 2016.

Previews: May 17 - 19, 2016 Opening Night: May 20, 2016 Regular Performances: May 21 - June 4, 2016

Feb 4, 2016 Congratulations Steven!

According to IMDb, Steven will appear in the movie "The Last Word."

He plays Sam Serman alongside Amanda Seyfried and Shirley MacLaine.

The status of the movie is pre-production. Production to start in early 2016

("The Last Word" filming in L.A. --> 02/06/2016 - 02/10/2016, 6:00 AM - 10:00 PM)

Directed by Mark Pellington

Written by Stuart Ross Fink

Production Companies: Aaron Magnani Productions, Myriad Pictures, Wondros

Distributors: Bleecker Street Media (2016) (USA) (theatrical)

Storyline

A one-time highly successful business woman, Harriet Lawler (Shirley MacLaine) has micro-managed every single aspect of her life. Why would her obituary be any different? And so she assigns the task to a local writer, Anne Sherman (Amanda Seyfried). When the first draft doesn't meet her expectations, Harriet sets out to rewrite her life's story before it's too late, with Anne dragged along as an unwilling accomplice. But as Anne slowly comes to realize, it's not Harriet's legacy she's helping to shape, it's her own. (c) Written by Myriad Pictures

(hollywoodreporter.com)

Myriad, who is financing, will begin sales on the film at the Toronto Film Festival.

Said Pellington: "This is a funny, heartwarming and emotionally tender tale of life. It explores the true source of power for independent women, and is a riotous life affirming film about the lessons learned through time and the generational gifts that are bestowed."

(deadline.com)

Bleecker Street has acquired U.S. distribution rights to Mark Pellington's The Last Word.

(thewrap.com)

"When I read Stuart's funny and touching script, I instantly saw Shirley MacLaine and Amanda Seyfried in the roles of these two amazing women. I'm excited to see Mark Pellington bring this story of reflection, personal legacy and self-truth to life," said Andrew Karpen, CEO of Bleecker Street.

"We're thrilled to have Bleecker Street onboard to bring this film to theaters across the US. They do a great job of bringing sophisticated and fun films like this to audiences. We are excited to see Amanda and Shirley shine in these roles and know that Mark will create a fantastic film," added D'Amico.

The deal was negotiated between Kent Sanderson, president of acquisitions & ancillary distribution for Bleecker Street, and Myriad's D'Amico and UTA Independent Film Group on behalf of the production.

(variety.com)

Producers are Pellington, Anne-Marie MacKay of Wondros and Myriad's Kirk D'Amico, with Aaron Magnani serving as an executive producer.

Myriad Pictures will finance and handle international sales.

The deal was negotiated between Kent Sanderson for Bleecker Street and D'Amico of Myriad Pictures and UTA Independent Film Group on behalf of the production.

For more information Jan 11, 2016 According to hollywoodreporter.com, Bosch's second season premieres Friday, March 11, 2016 on Amazon. Jan 10, 2016 Steven will appear on the CBS medical drama "Code Black" on January 27, 2016.

Official press release:

LEANNE CONFRONTS THE DRUNK DRIVER WHO KILLED HER FAMILY, ON "CODE BLACK," WEDNESDAY, JAN. 27

Tommy Dewey Returns as Dr. Mike Leighton, Angus' Older Brother, and Jesse Bradford Returns as Gordon Heshman, a Patient Jeff Hephner Guest Stars as Dr. Ed Harbert, the CEO of Angels Memorial

"The Fifth Stage" – Leanne goes to a prison to finally confront the drunk driver who killed her family. Also, Malaya begins to feel uncomfortable around her patient, Gordon Heshman (Jesse Bradford), on CODE BLACK, Wednesday, Jan. 27 (10:00-11:00 PM, ET/PT) on the CBS Television Network. Tommy Dewey returns as Dr. Mike Leighton, Angus' older brother. Jeff Hephner guest stars as Dr. Ed Harbert, the CEO of Angels Memorial.

REGULAR CAST: Marcia Gay Harden (Dr. Leanne Rorish), Bonnie Somerville (Christa Lorenson), Raza Jaffrey (Dr. Neal Hudson), Luis Guzmán (Jesse Sallander), Melanie Chandra (Malaya Pineda), Harry Ford (Angus Leighton), Benjamin Hollingsworth (Mario Savetti)

GUEST CAST: Angela Relucio (Risa Park), Christina Vidal (Gina Perello), Jillian Murray (Heather Pinkney), Tommy Dewey (Mike Leighton), Jeff Hephner (Ed Harbert), Iris Almario (Detective Carmody), Terrence Edwards (Medic 1), Michael Goorjian (Emanuel), Hal Ozsan (Karo), Deniz Akdeniz (Manny), Ezekiel Bridges (Graham), Joe Piccuirro (Medic 2), Rebecca Field (Lori), Melia Renee (Holly), Steven Culp (Desmond), Jesse Bradford (Gordon Heshman), Will Rothhaar (Henry), Taylor Zakhar (Ari)

WRITTEN BY: Brett Mahoney, DIRECTED BY: Oz Scott

Jan 8, 2016 - excerpt from hiddenremote.com

When TV fans last saw Jeff Hephner, he was being loaded into an ambulance – and now his next role is keeping him in the hospital.

CBS has announced that the Agent X star will guest on the Jan. 27 episode of its hit freshman medical drama Code Black. Hephner will play Dr. Ed Harbert, the CEO of the show's fictional Angels Memorial Hospital, in the episode called "The Fifth Stage."

The episode is pretty stacked in the guest star department. Aside from Hephner, Steven Culp (Desperate Housewives, JAG, and seemingly every other TV show ever) will appear as Desmond with Will Rothhaar (Killing Kennedy) as Henry. If you haven't watched Code Black yet, you should do it on the 27th if for no other reason than the sheer amount of talent. 2015 Nov 13, 2015 * As previously announced, according to IMDb, Steven will appear on the FOX series "Scream Queens." It will be the last episode of the first season. The episode was scheduled to air in January 2016 but it was advanced now to air on December 8, 2015.

* Dec 2, 2015 edited to add:

**TWO-HOUR SEASON FINALE**--"SCREAM QUEENS"—(8:00-10:00 PM ET/PT) CC-AD-HDTV 720p-Dolby Digital 5.1

"SCREAM QUEENS"

8:00 PM - 10:00 PM PST - CC - (TV-14 D, L, S, V): THE RED DEVIL UNMASKED ON THE SPECIAL TWO-HOUR SEASON FINALE OF "SCREAM QUEENS" TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, ON FOX Tuesday, December 8, On FOX

Shocking confessions are made as the Red Devil is finally unmasked and the killer revealed in the all-new "Dorkus/The Final Girl(s)," special two-hour season finale of SCREAM QUEENS airing Tuesday, Dec. 8 (8:00-10:00 PM ET/PT) on FOX. (SQ-112/13) (TV-14 D, L, S, V)

Cast: Emma Roberts as Chanel Oberlin; Jamie Lee Curtis as Dean Cathy Munsch; Oliver Hudson as Wes Gardner; Lea Michele as Hester; Abigail Breslin as Chanel #5; Nasim Pedrad as Gigi Caldwell; Skyler Samuels as Grace Gardner; Keke Palmer as Zayday Williams; Billie Lourd as Chanel #3; Diego Boneta as Pete; Glen Powell as Chad Radwell; Lucien Laviscount as Earl Grey; Niecy Nash as Denise Hemphill; Nick Jonas as Boone; Ariana Grande as Chanel #2

Guest Cast: Breezy Eslin as Jennifer; Jeanna Han as Sam; Whitney Meyer as Tiffany; Brianne Howey as Melanie Dorkus; Aaron Rhodes as Roger; Deneen Tyler as Shondell; Michael Siberry as Chesterton; Lara Grice as Chanel #5's Mom; Wallace Langham as Chanel #5's Dad; Jean Louise Kelly as Delight; Steven Culp as Clark Ulrich Nov 12, 2015 Steven on the set of the FOX series "Scream Queens"

Actress Jean Louisa Kelly posted the following message and photo on her Twitter account on Nov 11, 2015 at 2:05 pm PST:

"With Steven Culp on the set of @ScreamQueens!"

(c) Photo Jean Louisa Kelly

Nov 11, 2015 Steven is still filming scenes for the episode of the FOX series "Scream Queens."

Actress Jean Louisa Kelly posted the following message and photo on her Instagram account on Nov 11, 2015 at 10:33 am PST:

"jeanlouisakelly: With Steven Culp on the set of @ScreamQueensFox!"

"jeanlouisakelly: #JeanLouisaKelly #StevenCulp #ScreamQueens #OnSet"

(c) Photo Jean Louisa Kelly

Oct 30, 2015 According to IMDb, Steven will appear on the FOX series "Scream Queens." It will be the last episode (1.13) of the first season. The title is not known yet. The episode is scheduled to air in January 2016.

He plays Mark. Oct 25, 2015 Steven is still filming scenes for the second season of the Amazon Prime series 'Bosch' !!!

Actress Daya Vaidya posted the following message and photo on her Instagram account on Oct 15, 2015 at 6:46 am PST:

"Fun and ‪#‎HOT‬ day on the set of ‪#‎Bosch‬ @jamiehector @yanceyarias @stevenculp @leslie.stevens.927 ‪#‎setlife‬"

(c) Photo Daya Vaidya

Actress Leslie Stevens posted the following message and photo on her Twitter account on Oct 15, 2015 at 8:39 am PST:

"Got to hang w good-looking GrownUps. BOSCH. Yancy Arias. Daya Vaidya. Steven Culp (dream husband). Titus Welliver"

(c) Photo Leslie Stevens

Sep 19, 2015 Steven is still filming scenes for the second season of the Amazon Prime series 'Bosch' !!!

Actor Dar Dixon @dardixon1 posted the following messages (and picture) on his Twitter and Instagram accounts on Sep 11, 2015 at 7:12 am PST:

"Just wrapped on Amazon Prime's hit show, BOSCH. Me, Erika Alexander, Lance Reddick, Stephen Culp. https://instagram.com/p/7emaUoucg_/"

(c) Photo Dar Dixon

Aug 28, 2015 Steven is currently filming scenes for the second season of the Amazon Prime series 'Bosch' !!!

Actress Leslie Stevens @sirenrouge posted the following message (and picture) on her Twitter account on 27 Aug, 2015 at 7:25 pm PST:

"Fun, hot-sweaty day with Great Cast & Crew of BOSCH! ‪#‎BoschAmazon‬ ‪#‎stevenculp‬ ‪#‎erikaalexander‬ ‪#‎sirenrouge‬"

(c) Photo Leslie Stevens

Actress Lynn @MsLynnMusic posted the following message (and picture) on her Twitter / Instagram account on 27 Aug, 2015 at 8:46 pm PST:

"ON SET TODAY WITH DIRECTOR/PRODUCER PIETER JAN BRUGGE AND STEVEN CULP, WHO PLAYS RICHARD O'SHEA....@erikaalexanderthegreat & @lancereddick IN THE BACKGROUND....WE HAD AN AMAZING DAY OF FILMING, IN SPITE OF THE HEAT...I AM SO BLESSED...EVERY TIME A DOOR OPENS, I'M BLOWN AWAY..."

(c) Photo Lynn

Aug 12, 2015 Steven's third appearance on the new CBS summer show "Zoo" will be on Aug 25, 2015

Official Synopsis for Zoo ep. 1.09 "Murmuration":

"Murmuration" – Jamie contacts a fellow journalist in an attempt to expose the truth about Reiden's involvement in the global animal problem. After realizing Delavenne works for Reiden, Mitch escapes with both the Mother Cell and his daughter's medication. However, on their way to deliver the medication, Mitch and Abraham come face-to-face with a terrifying army of birds, on ZOO, Tuesday, August 25 (9:00-10:00 PM, ET/PT), on the CBS Television Network. Written by: Bryan Oh, Directed by: Michael Katleman

REGULAR CAST: James Wolk (Jackson Oz), Kristen Connolly (Jamie Campbell), Billy Burke (Mitch Morgan), Nonso Anozie (Abraham Kenyatta), Nora Arnezeder (Chloe Tousignant)

GUEST CAST: Steven Culp (Clayton Burke), Carl Lumbly (Delavenne), Anastasia Griffith (Audra Lewis), Madison Wolfe (Clementine Lewis), Xander Berkeley (Ronnie "Dogstick" Brannigan), Judd Lormand (Agent Singer), Benoit Cranscac (Pascal), Deneen Tyler (Sasha), Ian Hoch (Wilson Dupree), Michael Francis Horn (Security Chief), Lisa Hampton (Veterinarian), Kate Adair (Bird Owner), James W. Evermore (Bartender), Chelsea Bruland (Terrified Mother), Jeff Grays (Trooper), Rachel Wulf (Reporter) Jul 30, 2015 Steven's second appearance on the new CBS summer show "Zoo" will be on Aug 18, 2015

Official Synopsis for Zoo ep. 1.08 "The Cheese Stands Alone":

"The Cheese Stands Alone" – The team discovers a terrifying rat infestation when a cargo ship carrying the bloodthirsty rodents washes up off the coast of Massachusetts. Also, unbeknownst to the rest of the team, Mitch reconnects with his terminally ill daughter in Boston as he prepares to make a trade with Reiden-Global to save her life, on ZOO, Tuesday, August 18 (9:00-10:00 PM, ET/PT), on the CBS Television Network. Written by: Jay Faerber and Scott Rosenberg, Directed by: Eric Laneuville

REGULAR CAST: James Wolk (Jackson Oz), Kristen Connolly (Jamie Campbell), Billy Burke (Mitch Morgan), Nonso Anozie (Abraham Kenyatta), Nora Arnezeder (Chloe Tousignant)

GUEST CAST: Steven Culp (Clayton Burke), Carl Lumby (Delavenne), Scottie Thompson (Sheriff Rebecca Bowman), Anastasia Griffith (Audra Lewis), Madison Wolfe (Clementine Lewis), Xander Berkeley (Ronnie "Dogstick" Brannigan), Adria Tennor (Ginny), Al Vincente (Tim the Driver), Charlie Talbert (Jerome Pratt), Scott Thomson (Billy T) Jul 28, 2015 Steven's first appearance on the new CBS summer show "Zoo" will be on Aug 11, 2015

Official Synopsis for Zoo ep. 1.07 "Sleuths":

"Sleuths" – The team travels to Paris to search for a group of bears that were being studied for migration habits when their trackers mysteriously went offline. While investigating the strange occurrence, Chloe must work with and ultimately confront her ex-fiancé, a civil engineer, who is helping city officials find the missing bears. Meanwhile, with Jamie accused of murder, the team makes a daring plan to hack into the Reiden-Global mainframe, and Mitch makes a shocking discovery about the next evolutionary step of the animals, on ZOO, Tuesday, August 11 (9:00-10:00 PM, ET/PT), on the CBS Television Network. Written by: Dee Harris-Lawrence, Directed by: Dean White

REGULAR CAST: James Wolk (Jackson Oz), Kristen Connolly (Jamie Campbell), Billy Burke (Mitch Morgan), Nonso Anozie (Abraham Kenyatta), Nora Arnezeder (Chloe Tousignant)

GUEST CAST: Steven Culp (Clayton Burke), Carl Lumby (Delavenne), Simon Kassianides (Jean-Michel Lion), Ravi Naidu (Raja), Christian Lagadec (Antoine Belrose), Han Soto (Executive Assistant), Ben Matheny (Mayor's Aide), Cecile Monteyne (Woman from Bio-Lab), Louis Jouve (Wildlife Services Man), Lucy Faust (Lab Tech), Anthony Sandoval (Security Guard), Brandon Rivers (Young Abe), Zailand Adams (Malik), Kaden Lewis (Kalim) Jul 17, 2015 According to IMDb, Steven will appear on the ABC series "How to Get Away with Murder" !!! It will be the first episode of the second season, titled "It's Time to Move On," and it will air on Sep 24, 2015!

He plays Victor Lesher.

HOW TO GET AWAY WITH MURDER - It's Time to Move On' - Annalise and her students must move on with their lives as though nothing has happened, but the students are still reeling over Rebecca's disappearance. Only Annalise and Frank know that Rebecca was murdered and the two are determined to find out who killed her. Meanwhile, Annalise decides she wants to take on a new client, a brother and sister who are accused of killing their parents. And an old friend surprises Annalise at home and teaches her a valuable lesson, on the highly anticipated season premiere of 'How to Get Away with Murder,' THURSDAY SEPTEMBER 24 (10:00-11:00 p.m., ET) on the ABC Television Network. Jun 23, 2015 * News from Steven Culp himself:

(Thank you, Steven!)

Steven will recur on the new CBS series ZOO that starts to air on June 30, 2015! :)

He shot scenes for three episodes: #s: 107, 108, 109 (in total there will be 13 episodes of the first season)

BUT he cannot guarantee that his scenes won't be cut, or switched around to different episodes - but then again, he can never guarantee that about any program.

Furthermore, he sent the fourth and final installment of the fan Q&A! :) He talks about what he misses the most when he is shooting in another city, how he got the part on REVOLUTION, something we'd be surprised to know about him, and the best advice he has ever been given. - It takes some time to type up all pages. But as soon as I have put it online, you can read his answers.

* Jun 30, 2015 edited to add:

The fourth installment of the Q&A is now available to read. May 15, 2015 For German fans:

Die Folge "Law & Order: Los Angeles - Die Bestechlichen" (1x19) mit Steven wird am Mittwoch, den 20. Mai 2015 um 22.50 Uhr bei RTL Nitro ausgestrahlt.

Nachdem die Leiche der jungen Grafikdesignerin Kim Lee gefunden wird und von ihrem Freund Derrick Joyner jede Spur fehlt, gehen die Detectives Winters und Jaruszalski von einer Beziehungstat aus. Die Ermittler geben unverzüglich eine Fahndung nach dem jungen Mann heraus, doch niemand will ihn gesehen haben. Die einzigen Indizien sind Derricks Wagen, der in der Nähe des Bahnhofs geparkt wurde und ein auf seinen Namen gebuchtes Zugticket nach San Diego. Für Winters und Jaruszalski ist klar, dass sich Derrick nach der Tat abgesetzt hat, bis die Festnahme eines Mannes, der mit Derricks Kreditkarte gezahlt hat, eine entscheidende Wende in den Fall bringt: Dieser sagt aus, Derricks Portemonnaie samt Karten und Bargeld in einem Mülleimer gefunden zu haben. Diese Aussage lässt bei den Detectives erste Zweifel aufkommen und nur wenig später bestätigen sich ihre Bedenken, als sie Derricks Leiche unter seinem Haus finden. Der Täter muss sie dort absichtlich platziert haben, um alles nach einer Beziehungstat aussehen zu lassen. Als Winters und Jaruszalski im Umfeld der Opfer ermitteln, stoßen sie auf Roland Davidson, einen Arbeitskollegen von Derrick, der am Tattag mit Derrick in Streit geraten ist. Obwohl der Verdächtige aussagt, niemals im Haus des Paares gewesen zu sein, können seine Fingerabdrücke auf Kims Schmuckkästchen sichergestellt werden, sodass er unverzüglich verhaftet wird. Doch welches Motiv hatte Roland überhaupt und worum ging es in dem Streit zwischen den beiden Männern? (Text: RTL Nitro.de) Apr 23, 2015 ** Actor Xander Berkeley (@xanderberkeley) posted the following message on his Twitter account:

"Who are these guys??"

In Berkeley's previous tweets he mentions that he is in New Orleans at the moment. So there is a chance that Steven is in New Orleans right now filming and having a good time! :-)

My guess: Since NCIS: New Orleans is being filmed in New Orleans and Steven Webber has guest stared on NCIS: New Orleans, my guess is that Steven Culp will appear there too.

NCIS: New Orleans wraps: April 27, 2015 in New Orleans

* May 10, 2015 edited to add:

If it is not NCIS: New Orleans where Steven appears, then I guess it is a new series called "Zoo" that is still in production in New Orleans. Billy Burke, who is also in the picture, is part of the series. "Zoo" is a global thriller about a wave of violent animal attacks against humans sweeping the planet.

Zoo: CBS Studios film filming Jan. 26 to June, 2015 in New Orleans. The series premiers on June 30, 2015

** June 23, 2015 edited to add:

Steven confirmed that he will recur on the new series "Zoo" ! - Thank you, Steven! Mar 24, 2015 * Steven's short film "Cigar Man" will screen at the second annual Emerge Film Festival in Maine on Saturday, April 11, 2015 - 12:00pm to 1:30pm.

Emerge Film Festival Announces 2015 EFFy Award Nominations:

BEST FEATURE

Cigar Man (USA/CA)

Director, Producer, Writer: Evan Clar

Cast: Steven Culp, M. Emmet Walsh, John Griffin

BEST ACTOR

Steven Culp: Cigar Man --> Congratulations to Steven for being nominated as best actor!

* Apr 12, 2015 edited to add:

Steven did not win the award for Best Actor. "Cigar Man" did not win Best Feature, either. Mar 22, 2015 On March 18, 2015 was announced: It's official - Detective Harry Bosch will be returning for duty for Season 2.

Expect it to begin streaming in early 2016.

Let's hope that Steven aka D.A. Richard 'Rick' O'Shea will be part of the second season! Mar 2, 2015 Steven's short film "Cigar Man" can be seen at the second annual Emerge Film Festival in Maine.

The festival will be held over four days on April 9-12, 2015 at various venues in Lewiston and Auburn.

Feb 18, 2015 According to IMDb, the episode "Suicidal Tendencies" of "Arrow" with Steven will air on March 25, 2015 on CW. Feb 13, 2015 First capture of Steven on BOSCH!

Randy Vasquez, with whom Steven also played on JAG, was part of Steven's first scene!

Feb 1, 2015 * It looks like as if we get to see Steven's movie "Collusions" really soon!

Director of "Collusions" Kelli Joan Bennett posted on her website the following news:

I don't want to jinx it BUT, this could be it. The final frontier…finishing Collusions! As of this second, the stars are seemingly aligned and it looks like we are on schedule to finish the score this weekend, do the sound mix next Monday and Tuesday, do color correction Thursday and Friday, opening titles and closing credits the following Monday, output that night and actually make the extended Film Independent member deadline of the Los Angeles Film Festival. O. M. G. I am sooooooo ready to finish this baby and send it out into the world! Cross your fingers!

FYI: The Los Angeles Film Festival takes place from June 10 until June 18, 2015.

Line-up announcement: May 5, 2015

Individual tickets on sale: May 19, 2015

* Apr 27, 2015 edited to add:

Steven's movie "Collusions" will not be shown at the Los Angeles Film Festival. Jan 30, 2015 For German fans:

Die zweite Staffel von "Revolution" fängt am Freitag, den 30.01.2015, bei RTL Nitro an. Es werden immer zwei neue Folgen ausgestrahlt. Steven spielt das erste Mal in der vierten Folge mit, wird also am 6.02.2015 das erste Mal zu sehen sein. Jan 28, 2015 Steven Culp joins CW's 'Arrow'

[...]

A new character to the Arrow universe will be introduced: Senator Cray, who will be played by Steven Culp ("Grey's Anatomy"). In the comics, he was a corrupt politician who used Waller's team to help him gain more political power. For Arrow, Cray "will be at the center of a rescue operation in the fictional Republic of Kasnia."

More information on 'Arrow' Jan 14, 2015 News on 'Bosch'

The following message posted on the official 'Bosch' Twitter account on Jan 14, 2015:

"The countdown has begun...Get ready to stream all episodes of #BoschAmazon on 2/13 only on #AmazonPrime"

Creator of 'Bosch' and author Michael Connelly @Connellybooks posted the following messages on his Twitter account on Jan 14, 2015:

"Amazon to Debut its First Original Hour-Long Drama Series Bosch on February 13 in the US, UK and Germany http://on.mktw.net/1yghvys"

(In Germany: stream a dubbed version of the show via Amazon Prime Instant Video in June 2015.)

"Hey Canada! Bosch lands exclusively on CraveTV, on February 14. All 10 episodes to be available. http://bmpr.ca/17IC907 @CraveTVCanada

"Hey Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Norway! Watch BOSCH via HBO Nordic. Weekly episodes begin airing February 14. @HBOnordic @BoschAmazon"

In New Zealand: watch via Sky Television. Date to be determined.

In Italy: watch via Eagle Pictures. Date to be determined. Jan 7, 2015 News from Steven Culp himself:

(Thank you, Steven!)

Steven gave an update on BOSCH:

He wrote that he had shot scenes for six different episodes past fall:

#s: 103, 104, 106, 107, 108, 110 (in total there will be 10 episodes of the first season)

Sometimes his appearance is very brief.

BUT he cannot guarantee that his scenes won't be cut, or switched around to different episodes - but then again, he can never guarantee that about any program.

@ Steven: the answer to your question is yes :) ... thank you! 2014 Nov 27, 2014 For German fans:

Die erste Staffel von "Revolution" fängt am Freitag, den 28.11.2014, bei RTL Nitro an. Steven spielt zwar nicht in der ersten Staffel mit, sehenswert ist sie aber schon. Dadurch wird es etwas leichter, den Hintergrund der Folgen mit Steven zu verstehen. Nov 1, 2014 For German fans:

Die Folge "Perception - Schattenseite" (1x09) mit Steven wird am Mittwoch, den 12. November 2014 um 20.15 Uhr bei VOX ausgestrahlt.

Pierce bekommt einen Brief von einem ehemaligen Studenten, Wesley Sumpter, der einer Verschwörung auf die Spur gekommen ist. Wesley behauptet, der Flugzeugabsturz des Senators Ted Paulson sei kein Unglück gewesen, sondern ein Attentat, hinter dem der Unternehmer Crawford steckt. Zwei weitere Personen seien bereits ermordet worden und Wesley soll der Nächste sein. Er übergibt Pierce eine Aktentasche mit Zeitungsausschnitten und wird daraufhin tödlich von einem Armbrustpfeil getroffen. Sofort informiert Pierce Moretti. Probert erscheint als erster am Tatort, doch die Leiche ist verschwunden und die Spurensicherung findet auch keine Blutspuren. (Text: VOX.de) Oct 21, 2014 (October 17, 2014, deadline.com by Nellie Andreeva)

'The Lottery' Cancelled By Lifetime

Lifetime has made it official — opting not to review The Lottery for a second season. The cancellation was considered a foregone conclusion after the futuristic drama's freshman season averaged a paltry 700,000 in Live+Same Day. Compare that to the 1.8 million average for the second season of Devious Maids, which was recently renewed for a third season.

Conspiracy thriller The Lottery opened to 1.1 million total viewers in July paired with Witches Of East End.

[...]

Produced by Warner Horizon, the 10-episode The Lottery was set in a dystopian future when women have stopped having children, threatening extinction of the human race. Oct 10, 2014 Steven filmed another episode of "Bosch" !!!

Creator of "Bosch" and author Michael Connelly @Connellybooks posted the following message on his Twitter account on Oct 10, 2014 at 6:46 PM PST:

"Night shoot. A clandestine meeting between Irving and O'Shea -- Echo Park. #BoschTV "

(O'Shea is the last name of Steven's character on the show: D.A. Richard 'Rick' O'Shea)

Oct 1, 2014 Steven filmed another episode of the Amazon Prime Series "Bosch." He will appear on the episode "Donkey's Years," episode 1x06. The air date is not known yet, but will be posted as soon as it is available.

Photo was taken Sep 17, 2014

(c) boschtvfangroup.tumblr.com

Sep 28, 2014 * Tonight airs the season finale of "The Lottery." Following the storyline, I'd say there is a change that Steven will appear on that episode. Maybe you should watch it and see if he is listed in the opening credits. Maybe we have luck and see him again. :-)

* Sep 29, 2014 edited to add:

Steven did appear on the season finale of "The Lottery" !!! Aug 27, 2014 According to Lifetime's website, the airdate of 7th episode of "The Lottery" was changed: it is scheduled to air on Sep 7th, 2014.

* Sep 9, 2014 edited to add:

Ratings: Demo 0.2 Total 0.65 Aug 20, 2014 Actor Titus Welliver @welliver_titus posted the following message on his Twitter account on Aug 19, 2014 at 08:08 pm PST:

"Working with my good buddy Steven Culp,who is playing DA O'Shea pic.twitter.com/Ud3VAQYcSJ"

(c) Photo Titus Welliver

FYI:

Actor Titus Welliver is filming a new series right now, it's called "BOSCH." It will air on Amazon Prime. The pilot is already available to watch, but the filming of the series began last week. The series is expected to start streaming in Feb / Mar 2015.

The following pictures were posted by boschtvfangroup @ instagram.com

boschtvfangroup:

#stevenculp #tituswelliver on set #boschtv DA #oshea #harrybosch @connellybooks #michaelconnelly

boschtvfangroup:

#harrybosch #O'Shea #tituswelliver #stevenculp prepping with Director Kevin Dowling #boschtv

boschtvfangroup:

#stevenculp as DA O'Shea #boschtv #harrybosch #michaelconnelly @connellybooks

Aug 17, 2014 * According to the website locatetv.com Steven will appear on the episode "You Spin Me Round" (106) of "Rush." That episode will air on Aug 21, 2014 on USA Network.

According to the website hollywood.com Steven will play Senator Keating on "Rush."

* Aug 21, 2014 - edited to add:

An article about the new episode of "Rush" was released. Steven is mentioned as part of the episode:

"Rush In this new episode Alex and Rush (Larenz Tate, Tom Ellis) are looking forward to a guys' weekend at a medical conference, until they find out that Rush's ex (Odette Annable) is planning to attend with her new boyfriend. Mike Doyle and *Steven Culp* guest star in this new episode. 9 p.m. USA" (c) latimes.com Aug 4, 2014 The date when Steven's short film "I Can See You" will screeen at the HollyShorts Film Festival was announced: on Thursday, August 21, 2014 at 5pm. Jul 30, 2014 Willis @WillisBean_ posted the following message on her Twitter account on July 28, 2014 at 11:02 AM:

"Just ran into Robert Kennedy Jr. And his bodyguard in Montréal. #stevenculp #thirteendays #saggang… http://instagram.com/p/q5dTmrS2GK/"

(c) Photo Willis Bean

Jul 28, 2014 I'm on vacation the next three weeks. During that time I have only limited access to the Internet. Any news about Steven will be posted as soon as I can. Jul 23, 2014 * News from Steven Culp himself:

(Thank you, Steven!)

Steven filmed an episode of the new USA series "Rush." He will appear on episode 105.

The series airs Thursdays at 9:00PM-10:00PM (ET). It started to air on July 17, so the 5th episode is expected to air on Aug 14, 2014.

* Aug 15, 2014 - edited to add:

Steven did not appear on the episode that aired Aug 14, 2014. Maybe the order of the episodes were changed. As soon as there is new information about his appearance it will be posted here. Jul 23, 2014 The schedule of the Star Trek convention was posted on their website:

Saturday, August 2, 2014:

9:00 am Photo Op: Steven Culp, $40

12:00 pm Creation Close-Up Enterprise: The Xindi Saga: this special panel pays homage to the central story arc of the abortive and much loved series,including touching on the emotional through line of the death of 7 million humans including Trip's sister. Hosted by Roger Lay, Jr., the Saturn Award-winning producer/director of REUNIFICATION 25 YEARS AFTER STAR TREK: THE NEXT GENERATION and multiple other specials for CBS Home Entertainment, including STAR TREK: ENTERPRISE FIRST CREW.

This panel features: Scott Bakula (Captain Archer), Anthony Montgomery (Ensign Mayweather), Connor Trinneer ("Trip" Tucker), Dominic Keating (Lt. Malcolm Reed), John Billingsley (Dr. Phlox), Steven Culp (Major Hayes), and Tucker Smallwood (Xindi Primate Counselor).

1:00 pm on one side of the theatre: Autographs with Steven Culp & Tucker Smallwood, tickets at autograph sales tables front far right of the vendors room. We will call by number with pre-convention tickets called first. Both of their tickets are $20 each. Jul 19, 2014 According to IMDb, Steven appears on the seventh episode of a new series that starts airing on Lifetime tomorrow, on July 20, 2014 at 10:01PM-11:02PM (ET). The series is called "The Lottery."

The episode is expected to air on Aug 31, 2014. The title of the episode is not known yet, but I'll let you know as soon as I know it.

He plays the Vice President Dan Melrose. Jul 18, 2014 Steven's short film "I Can See You" will screen at the HollyShorts Film Festival that takes place from Aug 14 until 23, 2014.

The exact date of the screening has not been published yet.

To see the embedded trailer and pictures from the trailer, click here. Jul 11, 2014 Steven's short film "I Can See You" will screen at the LA Short Fest:

Time: at 5.30 pm on July 24, 2014

Location: Laemmle NoHo 7 Theatres (located at 5240 Lankershim Blvd. North Hollywood 91601) Jul 6, 2014 For German fans:

Die Folge "King & Maxwell - Mundtot" (1x09) mit Steven wird am Mittwoch, den 9. Juli 2014 um 20.15 Uhr bei VOX ausgestrahlt.

In einem Verhörraum des FBI-Hauptquartiers wird ein Mann erschossen. Sollte der Kronzeuge eines Umweltprozesses " Mundtot" gemacht werden? Der unerkannte Profikiller muss sich jedenfalls noch im Gebäude befinden. Zusammen mit Agent Rigby (Michael O'Keefe) eröffnen die zufällig anwesenden, zänkischen Privatermittler (Rebecca Romijn, Jon Tenney) die Jagd. (Text: TV Spielfilm) May 10, 2014 According to the Creation Entertainment website, Steven Culp will appear at the Official Star Trek convention

Location: The Rio Suites Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada

Convention takes place: from July 31 until August 3, 2014.

Steven is scheduled to appear on Saturday, August 2, 2014.

Saturday: Enterprise "Xindi Saga" Panel starring in person Scott Bakula, Connor Trinneer, Dominic Keating, Anthony Montgomery, John Billingsley, Steven Culp, and Tucker Smallwood, hosted by Roger Lay, Jr.

Steven Culp Photo Op Ticket: $40

Steven Culp Autograph Ticket: $20

For tickets and more information, click the banner below:

May 2, 2014 Even though we already knew about it, it is official now:

According to the new press release, Steven will appear on the season finale of "Revolution" !!!

It will air on May 21, 2014 !!!

NBC press release:

"REVOLUTION"

"DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE"

05/21/2014 (08:00PM - 09:00PM) (Wednesday): IN THE SEASON TWO FINALE, THE STAKES ARE HIGHER THAN EVER AS THE PATRIOTS PLAN FOR WAR

Miles (Billy Burke), Charlie (Tracy Spiridakos) and Monroe (David Lyons) launch an attack on the Patriots, but must improvise a risky new plan in order to halt the oncoming war between California and Texas. Out for revenge, Neville (Giancarlo Esposito) sets his sights on President Davis (guest star Cotter Smith). Meanwhile, Aaron (Zak Orth) and Rachel's (Elizabeth Mitchell) efforts to save Priscilla (guest star Maureen Sebastian) from the nano-tech has unexpected consequences.

Also starring Stephen Collins, Mat Vairo, *Steven Culp*, Anthony Ruivivar, M.C. Gainey, Colby French, Billy Lush Apr 25, 2014 According to the new press release, Steven will appear on episode 2x21 ("Memorial Day") of "Revolution" !!!

It will air on May 14, 2014 !!!

NBC press release:

"REVOLUTION"

"MEMORIAL DAY"

05/14/2014 (08:00PM - 09:00PM) (Wednesday): NEVILLE ENLISTS MONROE IN HIS PLANS TO GET REVENGE ON THE PATRIOTS

United by their desire to take the Patriots down, Neville (Giancarlo Esposito) and Monroe (David Lyons) form an uneasy alliance. As Rachel (Elizabeth Mitchell) comes face-to-face with the nano-tech while searching for Aaron (Zak Orth), things don't go according to plan for Miles (Billy Burke), Charlie (Tracy Spiridakos) and Gene (Stephen Collins) when they try to steal the Patriots' supply of mustard gas.

Also starring Mat Vairo, *Steven Culp*, Maureen Sebastian, Reiko Aylesworth, Anthony Ruivivar, Cotter Smith, Billy Lush, Jordan Dragonking Apr 18, 2014 According to the new press release, Steven will appear on episode 2x20 ("Tomorrowland") of "Revolution" !!!

It will air on May 7, 2014 !!!

NBC press release:

"REVOLUTION"

"TOMORROWLAND"

05/07/2014 (08:00PM - 09:00PM) (Wednesday): MILES AND MONROE PLAN TO FIGHT DIRTY WHEN THE PATRIOTS CHANGE TACTICS

Truman (Steven Culp), empowered with new authority from the President, launches a mustard gas attack designed to kill Miles (Billy Burke) and Monroe (David Lyons). To Rachel's (Elizabeth Mitchell) disappointment, Miles agrees to join Monroe in a ruthless plot to beat the Patriots at their own game. As Neville (Giancarlo Esposito) faces his own challenge from the Patriots, Aaron (Zak Orth) grows increasingly alarmed by the power of the nanotech.

Also starring Tracy Spiridakos, Stephen Collins, Mat Vairo, Reiko Aylesworth, Waleed Zuaiter, Cotter Smith, Maureen Sebastian, Billy Lush Apr 12, 2014 * Just to keep you informed:

The press release for episode 2x19 ("$#!& Happens") of "Revolution" was released. Steven is not mentioned to be part of that episode. *

"REVOLUTION"

"$#!& HAPPENS"

04/30/2014 (08:00PM - 09:00PM) (Wednesday): AS MILES FIGHTS FOR SURVIVAL, CHARLIE IS CONFRONTED BY NEVILLE IN THE AFTERMATH OF JASON'S DEATH

As Miles (Billy Burke), Monroe (David Lyons), Charlie (Tracy Spiridakos) and Connor (Mat Vairo) rush to escape Austin, a confrontation with Texas Rangers separates Miles from the group. While out searching for Miles, Charlie is confronted by Neville (Giancarlo Esposito) who demands information on Jason's whereabouts. As a wounded Miles faces increasingly hopeless circumstances, Aaron (Zak Orth) learns that the nanotech has been busy.

Also starring Elizabeth Mitchell, Maureen Sebastian and Tim Guinee

* Since press releases are not always right, there is a chance that Steven will appear on that episode.

* May 1, 2014 - edited to add:

The press release was right: Steven Culp did not appear on that episode. Apr 10, 2014 * Just to keep you informed:

The season finale of "Revolution" has been pushed by a week from its original air date of May 14th.

Here is the airing schedule for the rest of the season of "Revolution":

Episode 2.19 - $#!& Happens - April 30th

Episode 2.20 - TBA - May 7th

Episode 2.21 - TBA - May 14th

Episode 2.22 - TBA - May 21st (Season Finale)

* Apr 11, 2014 - edited to add:

Revolution - Episode 2.20 - 2.22 - Titles Revealed

Episode 2.20 - Tomorrowland

Episode 2.21 - Memorial Day

Episode 2.22 - Declaration of Independence Apr 9, 2014 Kerry Lampkin (one of the actors on "Revolution") posted on his Twitter account on Apr 9, 2014 at 12:02 a.m. (Central Standard Time (CST) - Austin, Texas, time) the following message:

"Me & actor Steven Culp.. been on set since 9am. #WILLOUGHBYPATRIOT#REVOLUTION#NBC#episode22"

(Episode 22 is the last episode of the second season of "Revolution" --->>> that means Steven's character Truman will not die in the forthcoming four episodes!!!)

Photo (c) Kerry Lampkin

Mar 26, 2014 * The following message is not a hoax, it is true.

Steven offered to do a Q & A interview for this website with questions asked by his fans.

He wants to answer questions by his fans that will be sent in for him to answer. The questions and answers will be posted on this website.

That is your chance to ask him a question that he will answer.

Please let me know what you want him to answer. You can write it in the comments or send a private message through the Facebook page or you can send the question to the following email address: scontv [@] gmx.net.

Please let me know if you want me to include your name (first or full) when I forward the question or if you want me to leave your name out. And also, when the question and the answer will be posted on the website, do you want me to include your name (first or full) or no name at all.

The deadline is May 16, 2014, after the season finale of "Revolution" aired. If he is part of the season finale is not known. The date just gives you enough time to think about a question for him.

If you have any questions regarding all this, please let me know.

* Apr 12, 2014 - edited to add:

Since the season finale of "Revolution" was postponed to air on May 21st and Steven is part of the season finale, the new deadline to submit a question is May 23, 2014.

** May 24, 2014 - edited to add:

Thanks to everyone who submitted a question! Mar 25, 2014 * According to IMDB, Steven Culp appears in the superhero movie:

"Captain America 2: The Return of the First Avenger" aka "Captain America: The Winter Soldier"

He plays Scudder.

In the USA it opens April 4, 2014.

In Germany it opens March 27, 2014.

In Belgium & UK it opens March 26, 2014.

For more countries, check the IMDB website.

* Mar 27, 2014 - edited to add:

Watched "Captain America 2: The Return of the First Avenger" aka "Captain America: The Winter Soldier" today!

I won't tell anything but it was really nice to see Steven in there! :-) Mar 23, 2014 News from Steven Culp himself:

(Thank you, Steven!)

Steven sent some words regarding his work on the series "Revolution" ...

QUOTE I'm sorry to have not been providing information about "Revolution" this year [...]. It's like I said in the interview [...]: I don't know how much of what I know should be kept secret and even I don't know that much. Telling the fans that I would be in a forthcoming episode would be giving away the fact that Truman's still alive, for example. So I've just remained quite the whole time.

And for the rest of this year, every time I get a new script I would think, "well, here's the one where I get killed," and I would be as surprised as anyone when I survived in the end. Now, of course, I have a bit more knowledge - I know how the season will end at this point - but I still can't give anything away. So everyone will just have to watch and see. UNQUOTE Mar 20, 2014 * Just to keep you informed:

The press release for episode 2x18 ("Austin City Limits") of "Revolution" was released. Steven is not mentioned to be part of that episode. *

"REVOLUTION"

"AUSTIN CITY LIMITS"

04/02/2014 (08:00PM - 09:00PM) (Wednesday): JASON TAKES A STAND

Frustrated with Neville (Giancarlo Esposito), Jason (JD Pardo) turns to Miles (Billy Burke) with crucial information about the Patriots' next steps for Texas. Determined to derail the Patriots' plans, Miles and Monroe (David Lyons) rush to Austin with Jason, Charlie (Tracy Spiridakos) and Connor (Mat Vairo) in tow. Meanwhile, Aaron (Zak Orth) grows suspicious of Priscilla's (Maureen Sebastian) increasingly unusual behavior.

Also starring Stephen Collins and Elizabeth Mitchell

* Since press releases are not always right, there is a chance that Steven will appear on that episode.

* Apr 3, 2014 - edited to add:

The press release was right: Steven Culp did not appear on that episode. Feb 28, 2014 * According to the new press release, Steven will appear on episode 2x17 ("Why We Fight") of "Revolution" !!!

It will air on March 19, 2014 !!!

NBC press release:

"REVOLUTION"

"WHY WE FIGHT"

03/19/2014 (08:00PM - 09:00PM) (Wednesday): MONROE TAKES ACTION AGAINST THE PATRIOTS

While Dr. Porter (Stephen Collins) and Miles (Billy Burke) venture into Willoughby in search of allies within the town, Monroe (David Lyons) seizes an opportunity to surprise the Patriots. Neville's (Giancarlo Esposito) political maneuverings put him and Jason (JD Pardo) in serious danger, as Aaron (Zak Orth) and Priscilla (Maureen Sebastian) continue on their journey.

Also starring Tracy Spiridakos, Elizabeth Mitchell, Christopher Cousins, Mat Vairo and *Steven Culp*

* Mar 6, 2014 - edited to add:

A promotion picture of Steven on "Revolution, episode "Why We Fight" was released, so he will appear on episode 2x17 of "Revolution" !!!

For larger version, click . Feb 21, 2014 According to the new press release, Steven will appear on episode 2x16 ("Exposition Boulevard") of "Revolution" !!!

It will air on March 12, 2014 !!!

NBC press release:

"REVOLUTION"

"EXPOSITION BOULEVARD"

03/12/2014 (08:00PM - 09:00PM) (Wednesday): THE PATRIOTS STEP UP THEIR REEDUCATION INITIATIVE IN WILLOUGHBY

Monroe (David Lyons), Charlie (Tracy Spiridakos) and Connor (Mat Vairo) make their way back to Willoughby, where they find that the Patriots' reeducation center is up and running. An encounter with two of the center's young cadets leaves Rachel (Elizabeth Mitchell) and Miles (Billy Burke) divided on the lengths they are willing to go in order to take down the Patriots. As Neville (Giancarlo Esposito) and Jason (JD Pardo) find a new ally for their mission, more about the history of the Patriots is revealed.

Also starring Stephen Collins, Christopher Cousins, *Steven Culp*, David Aaron Baker, Cotter Smith and Julius Washington. Feb 18, 2014 Steven's short film "The Lady with the Alligator Purse," he filmed last year, is now complete.

The title was changed to "I Can See You."

Runtime: 17 min Feb 14, 2014 * Just to keep you informed:

The press release for episode 2x15 ("Dreamcatcher") of "Revolution" was released. Steven is not mentioned to be part of that episode. *

"REVOLUTION"

"DREAMCATCHER"

03/05/2014 (08:00PM - 09:00PM) (Wednesday): THINGS ARE NOT WHAT THEY SEEM WHEN AARON AWAKES TO A WORLD WITH POWER

Aaron (Zak Orth) awakes to find himself in a world with power, married to Priscilla (Maureen Sebastian) and running his company. As he gets the feeling that something isn't quite right, familiar faces begin to appear.

Also starring Billy Burke, Tracy Spiridakos, Giancarlo Esposito, David Lyons and Elizabeth Mitchell. Special appearance by MSNBC's Chris Hayes.

* Since press releases are not always right, there is a chance that Steven will appear on that episode.

* Mar 6, 2014 - edited to add:

The press release was right: Steven Culp did not appear on that episode. Feb 8, 2014 * Just to keep you informed:

The press release for episode 2x14 ("Fear and Loathing") of "Revolution" was released. Steven is not mentioned to be part of that episode. *

"REVOLUTION"

"FEAR AND LOATHING"

02/26/2014 (08:00PM - 09:00PM) (Wednesday): CHARLIE, CONNOR AND MONROE FACE DANGER IN NEW VEGAS

With their lives in danger in New Vegas, Monroe (David Lyons) and Connor (Mat Vairo) face a difficult decision in order to survive. Back in Willoughby, Miles (Billy Burke) questions whether he can trust Neville (Giancarlo Esposito) and Jason (JD Pardo) to help take down the Patriots. Meanwhile, Aaron (Zak Orth) and Priscilla (Maureen Sebastian) find themselves at odds over the nano code.

Also starring Tracy Spiridakos, Stephen Collins, Elizabeth Mitchell, Christopher Cousins, Jessica Collins, Katie Aselton and Timm Sharp

* Since press releases are not always right, there is a chance that Steven will appear on that episode.

* Feb 27, 2014 - edited to add:

The press release was right: Steven Culp did not appear on that episode. Jan 30, 2014 Just to keep you informed:

"Revolution" will take a break after the episode 2x13 "Happy Endings" that aired January 29, 2014. The show will return after the Olympic Games on February 26, 2014 with the episode 2x14 "Fear and Loathing."

If Steven will appear on that episode is not known yet. Jan 28, 2014 For German fans:

Die Folge "Longmire - Der Preis der guten Tat" (1x08) mit Steven wird am Freitag, den 31. Januar 2014 um 23.00 Uhr bei RTL Nitro ausgestrahlt.

Eine junge Frau betritt vollkommen panisch eine Tankstelle und bittet deren Besitzer Ellis Hinkley um Hilfe, da sie verfolgt werde. Dieser alarmiert unverzüglich den Sheriff ? doch Walt kommt zu spät: Er entdeckt unter einem Haufen alter Autoreifen Hinkleys Leiche. Von der jungen Frau hingegen fehlt jede Spur. (Text: RTL Nitro)

Nach der TV-Ausstrahlung ist "Longmire" für 7 Tage bei RTL Nitro online kostenlos abrufbar! Jan 11, 2014 * According to the new press release, Steven will appear on episode 2x13 ("Happy Ending") of "Revolution" !!!

It will air on Jan 29, 2013 !!!

NBC press release:

"REVOLUTION"

"HAPPY ENDINGS"

01/29/2014 (08:00PM - 09:00PM) (Wednesday): MONROE HATCHES A PLAN - BRET MICHAELS GUEST STARS

Monroe (David Lyons) leads Connor (Mat Vairo) and Charlie (Tracy Spiridakos) on a risky mission, as Miles (Billy Burke) and Rachel (Elizabeth Mitchell) keep an eye on things in Willoughby. Meanwhile, Neville (Giancarlo Esposito) gets a new assignment and Aaron (Zak Orth) reunites with an old friend.

Also starring JD Pardo, Stephen Collins, Katie Aselton, *Steven Culp*, Maureen Sebastian and Daniel Henney Jan 4, 2014 According to the new press release, Steven will appear on episode 2x12 ("Captain Trips") of "Revolution" !!!

It will air on Jan 22, 2013 !!!

NBC press release:

"REVOLUTION"

"CAPTAIN TRIPS"

01/22/2014 (08:00PM - 09:00PM) (Wednesday): CHARLIE AND RACHEL SHARE AN INTERESTING BOND- KIM RAVER GUEST STARS – When Gene (Stephen Collins) decides to assist the town of Willoughby, Rachel (Elizabeth Mitchell) and Charlie (Tracy Spiridakos) feel compelled to help too as Miles (Billy Burke) and Monroe (David Lyons) continue to join forces in order to survive.

Also starring JD Pardo, Christopher Cousins, Mat Vairo, Maureen Sebastian, *Steven Culp* and Kim Raver. 2013 Dec 28, 2013 * Just to keep you informed:

The press release for episode 2x11 ("Mis Dos Padres") of "Revolution" was released. Steven is not mentioned to be part of that episode. *

NBC Press release:

"REVOLUTION"

"MIS DOS PADRES"

01/15/2014 (08:00PM - 09:00PM) (Wednesday): MONROE'S PARENTING SKILLS ARE PUT TO THE TEST - KIM RAVER GUEST STARS - Monroe (David Lyons) finds himself in unfamiliar territory and must make a choice about his son, Conner (Matt Vairo) whilst Neville (Giancarlo Esposito) and Julia (Kim Raver) continue to tango at Jason's (JD Pardo) dismay. Meanwhile, Gene (Stephen Collins) leads Charlie (Tracy Spiridakos) to an uneasy discovery.

Also starring JD Pardo, Christopher Cousins, David Aaron Baker, Jorge Jimenez and Jack Scalia.

* Since press releases are not always right, there is a chance that Steven will appear on that episode.

* Jan 16, 2013 - edited to add:

Even though the press release does not mention Steven Culp to be part of the episode, he appeared on the episode! Dec 22, 2013 * Just to keep you informed:

The press release for episode 2x10 ("Three Amigos") of "Revolution" was released. Steven is not mentioned to be part of that episode. *

NBC Press release:

"REVOLUTION"

"THREE AMIGOS"

01/08/2014 (08:00PM - 09:00PM) (Wednesday): MILES LEADS AN UNLIKELY TRIO IN HIS ONGOING QUEST TO MAKE AMENDS- KIM RAVER GUEST STARS - When Miles leads Monroe (David Lyons) and Rachel (Elizabeth Mitchell) south of the border; they're met with much more than they bargained for as Neville (Giancarlo Esposito) and Julia (Kim Raver) dance a delicate dance. Meanwhile, Charlie (Tracy Spiridakos) and Gene (Stephen Collins) continue their search for Aaron (Zak Orth).

Also starring JD Pardo, Christopher Cousins, David Aaron Baker, Matt Vairo, Jorge Jimenez and Jack Scalia.

* Jan 9, 2013 - edited to add:

Even though the press release does not mention Steven Culp to be part of the episode, he appeared on the episode! Nov 21, 2013 Just to keep you informed:

NBC announced that "Revolution" will return after the break with the episode "Three Amigos" on January 8, 2014.

If Steven will appear on that episode is not known yet. Nov 16, 2013 Just to keep you informed:

"Revolution" will take a break after the mid-season finale, episode 2x09, that airs Nov 20, 2013. The show will return next year. The air date of episode 2x10 will be posted, once it's released. Nov 2, 2013 * According to the new press release, Steven will appear on episode 2x09 of "Revolution" !!!

It will air on Nov 20, 2013 !!!

NBC press release:

"REVOLUTION"

"EVERYONE SAYS I LOVE YOU"

11/20/2013 (08:00PM - 09:00PM) (Wednesday): NEVILLE REACTS TO A SURPRISE – The relationship between Rachel (Elizabeth Mitchell) and Gene (Stephen Collins) remains strained as Charlie (Tracy Spiridakos) shows her mom how much she's grown. Meanwhile, Neville (Giancarlo Esposito) gives Jason (JD Pardo) a determined proclamation.

Also starring David Lyons, JD Pardo, Zak Orth, Jessica Collins, *Steven Culp*, Nicole Ari Parker and David Aaron Baker.

* Nov 21, 2013 - edited to add:

Even though the press release listed Steven Culp to be part of the episode, he did not appear on the episode. Oct 31, 2013 * Today a short video clip was released on Vimeo that shows Steven and the actor John Griffin in a scene.

The video is titled "Dead on Arrival"

It looks like a short film Steven must have done in 2012.

There is no more information available at this point, but will be posted as soon as it becomes available.

You can take a look at the video by following this link.

To see captures taken from the video clip, click here.

* Nov 11, 2013 - edited to add:

The video was deleted on Nov 10, 2013:

Oct 25, 2013 * The press release for episode 2x08 ("Come Blow Your Horn") of "Revolution" was released. Steven is not mentioned to be part of that episode.

However, on episode 2x08 is listed. So there is a big chance that he will appear on that episode.

It will air on Nov 13, 2013 !!!

NBC press release:

"REVOLUTION"

"COME BLOW YOUR HORN"

11/13/2013 (08:00PM - 09:00PM) (Wednesday): AARON'S DEATHLY EXPERIENCE CATCHES PEOPLE'S ATTENTION – As Miles (Billy Burke) and the gang try to escape the perils of their current situation, Rachel (Elizabeth Mitchell) and Gene (Stephen Collins) continue to struggle with their relationship, which affects Charlie (Tracy Spiridakos). Meanwhile, Neville (Giancarlo Esposito) takes a gamble with the Patriots.

Also starring David Lyons, Zak Orth and Zeljko Ivanek.

* Nov 7, 2013 - edited to add:

Steven in the preview for next week's episode "Come Blow Your Horn"

Oct 18, 2013 According to the new press release, Steven will appear on episode 2x07 of "Revolution" !!!

It will air on Nov 6, 2013 !!!

NBC press release:

"REVOLUTION"

"THE PATRIOT ACT"

11/06/2013 (08:00PM - 09:00PM) (Wednesday): MILES AND COMPANY ARE TRAPPED IN WILOUGHBY – When Rachel (Elizabeth Mitchell) discovers some unsettling truths, Miles (Billy Burke) does what he does best to overcome obstacles before him and those he cares about. Meanwhile, Charlie (Tracy Spiridakos) shares a moment with her mom as Neville (Giancarlo Esposito) and Jason (JD Pardo) continue with their struggles between father and son.

Also starring David Lyons, Zak Orth, Jessica Collins, Nicole Ari Parker, *Steven Culp* and Zeljko Ivanek. Oct 17, 2013 * Even though the press release of episode 2x06 ("Dead Man Walking") of "Revolution" does not mention Steven to be part of the show, there is a promotion photo of Steven that is titled "Dead Man Walking."

That means Steven will appear on episode 2x06 of "Revolution" !!!

It will air on Oct 30, 2013 !!!

NBC Press release:

"REVOLUTION"

"DEAD MAN WALKING"

10/30/2013 (08:00PM - 09:00PM) (Wednesday): MILES CONSIDERS THE CONSEQUENCES OF MONROE'S ACTIONS – As Charlie (Tracy Spiridakos), Rachel (Elizabeth Mitchell) and Gene (Stephen Collins) question Monroe's (David Lyons) true allegiance, Miles (Billy Burke) himself is weary of his former friend's intentions. Meanwhile, Aaron (Zak Orth) continues to have visions that lead to endless questions.

Also starring Giancarlo Esposito, JD Pardo and Nicole Ari Parker.

* Oct 24, 2013 - edited to add:

Picture from the preview of the episode "Dead Man Walking"

Oct 4, 2013 According to the new press release, Steven will appear on episode 2x05 of "Revolution" !!!

It will air on Oct 23, 2013 !!!

NBC Press release:

"REVOLUTION"

"ONE RIOT, ONE RANGER"

10/23/2013 (08:00PM - 09:00PM) (Wednesday): MYSTERIOUS SCIENCE IS ABOUND AND ALMOST NO ONE IS IMMUNE FROM SURPRISES - Aaron (Zak Orth) and Rachel (Elizabeth Mitchell) speculate on the extreme effects of Nano technology, while he also confides in Cynthia (Jessica Collins). Meanwhile a figure from Miles's (Billy Burke) rugged past, Texas Ranger John Fry (Jim Beaver) reemerges. Fry could be Miles' chance to bring down the Patriots in a big way, however Fry will need convincing. Charlie (Tracy Spiridakos) has a surprise for Miles and her mother, while Secretary Allenford (Nicole Ari Parker) holds a secret important to Neville (Giancarlo Esposito).

Also starring David Lyons, Jason Douglas, *Steven Culp* and Ashley Wood. Oct 4, 2013 According to IMDb Steven filmed the short movie "Cigar Man."

The status of the movie is "complete" so he must have done it some time ago.

He played the part of Ken.

Synopsis:

Ken's life is one of lines and symmetry and, as a draftsman, he strives to keep everything well structured. But when a sudden knock at the door sends his final line astray, Ken finds his life's edifice collapsing brick by brick until he has nothing left; not even his shirt. Now, with all of his earthly possessions on the table, Ken must bargain with the Cigar Man to learn the foundation of what is truly important.

The movie was produced, directed and written by a group of students at University of California, Santa Barbara.

17 min - Drama | Thriller Sep 28, 2013 The wait is finally over!!!

Steven's first appearance on "Revolution" will be on episode 2x04 ("Patriot Games") !!!

It will air on Oct 16, 2013 !!!

NBC Press release:

"REVOLUTION"

"PATRIOT GAMES"

10/16/2013 (08:00PM - 09:00PM) (Wednesday): WOUNDS HEAL, WHILE NEW BONDS FORM - Monroe (David Lyons) and Charlie's (Tracy Spiridakos) dynamic begin to evolve. Meanwhile, wounds of Miles (Billy Burke) and Rachel (Elizabeth Mitchell) begin to heal, yet her curiosity and heightened awareness could be her undoing. Neville's (Giancarlo Espositio) manipulation of Patriot power brokers makes Machiavelli look like a cherub and Aaron's (Zak Orth) mind works overtime awake or asleep with mind-blowing effectiveness. Rachel and Miles begin planning a resistance to what they believe might be the Patriot occupation.

Also starring JD Pardo, Stephen Collins, Nicole Ari Parker, Jessica Collins, Jason Douglas, Richard T. Jones, *Steven Culp*, Matt Ross and Damon Carney. Aug 29, 2013 For German fans:

Die Folge "Prime Suspect - Ein toller Typ und trotzdem tot" (1x04) mit Steven wird am Freitag, den 6. September 2013 um 21.15 Uhr bei Kabel 1 ausgestrahlt.

Ein Börsenmakler wird tot auf der Straße gefunden. Anthony Giordano wurde offenbar von einem Unbekannten erschossen. Jane hat jedoch schnell eine andere Theorie: Sie glaubt, dass seine Frau Louise in die Sache verwickelt ist. Doch sie scheint kein Motiv zu haben – ebenso wenig wie jemand anders. Selbst bei der Mafia, mit der Anthony Geschäfte gemacht hat, hat er offenbar keine Feinde. Derweil versucht Jane mit Hilfe eine Hypnotiseurin vom Rauchen loszukommen. (Text: kabel eins) Aug 8, 2013 * Congratulations to Steven for getting the recurring role on "Revolution" !!!

According to Deadline, Steven will recur in the second season of NBC's post-apocalyptic sci-fi series "Revolution."

(Aug 8, 2013, Deadline.com, by Nellie Andreeva)

Steven Culp (Grey's Anatomy) has landed an arc on the second season of NBC's post-apocalyptic drama Revolution. He will play clean-cut Edward Truman, a dignified authority figure. Culp is with Domain and Miriam Milgrom Management.

More information can be found here.

* ETA Aug 21, 2013

On Aug 21, 2013, Actor Jim Beaver (@jumblejim) posted on his Twitter account and on his Facebook page the following news:

First day on the new job. Worked with good guys Steven Culp and Barry Tubb. Long, easy day.

He does not mention the name of the show but I guess it is "Revolution" since he mentioned Austin as the location where he is right now in an entry written last Monday and "Revolution" is being filmed there. So, Steven is in Austin right now!!! Jul 19, 2013 * News from Mr. Steven Culp himself:

(Thank you, Steven!)

Steven filmed an episode of the TNT series "King & Maxwell". The episode is called "Locked In" (1x09) and according to IMDB it is scheduled to air on Aug 5, 2013.

Synopsis:

When the key witness to a company's deadly chemical spill is murdered inside FBI headquarters, King and Maxwell are trapped in the building. With a killer on the loose and Special Agent Rigby's career on the line, they have only hours to solve the murder and find a new witness to testify at a Senate hearing to bring the company to justice. August 5, 10:00-11:00 pm (ET/PT), on TNT

* Aug 6, 2013 - edited to add:

Jul 15, 2013 For German fans:

Die Folge "Harry's Law - Organhandel" (2x12) mit Steven wird am Freitag, den 2. August 2013 um 2.00 Uhr (vom Datum her eigentlich am 3. August 2013) bei Kabel 1 ausgestrahlt.

Harry, ihre Kollegen Oliver, Tommy, Adam und Richter Randy pokern mal wieder, als ein Fremder dazu stößt: Jimmy Cormack. Er nimmt einen Haufen Geld mit nach Hause und taucht damit tags drauf in Harrys Büro auf. Jimmy ist Nierenkrank und hat nur noch ein halbes Jahr zu leben. Nun will er sich von seinem Gewinn eine Niere kaufen: Der Familienvater Christopher Philips hat ihm sein Organ angeboten, da er das Geld dringend braucht. Doch keine Klinik will die beiden operieren. (Text: kabel eins) Mar 9, 2013 Steven will be part of the play "The Parisian Woman" at the South Coast Repertory in Costa Mesa from April 14 until May 5, 2013.

Previews: April 14-18, 2013

Opening Night: April 19, 2013

Regular Performances: April 20 - May 5, 2013 Jan 29, 2013 On Jan 29, 2013, Kelli Joan Bennett (@FromWhatYouHave) posted on her Twitter account the following news:

The cast of my #indiefilm #Collusions: Tom Everett Scott, Tembi Locke, Steven Culp, Jamison Jones, Brynn Thayer & me!

and

The director of #Collusions #AnthonyVietro begins the editing process today! Follow along on our FB page #indiefilm

Click here for more information about the movie. Feb 5, 2013 For German fans:

Die Folge "Grey's Anatomy - Große Schritte" (9x05) mit Steven wird am Mittwoch, den 6. Februar 2013 um 20.15 Uhr bei Pro 7 ausgestrahlt. Es ist die letzte Folge mit Steven. Jan 28, 2013 For German fans:

Die Folge "Grey's Anatomy - Versteckspiel" (9x04) mit Steven wird am Mittwoch, den 30. Januar 2013 um 20.15 Uhr bei Pro 7 ausgestrahlt. Jan 20, 2013 For German fans:

Die Folge "Grey's Anatomy - Liebe die Deinen" (9x03) mit Steven wird am Mittwoch, den 23. Januar 2013 um 20.15 Uhr bei Pro 7 ausgestrahlt. 2012 Dec 30, 2012 Steven's radio play "OPUS" is available to download at audible.com as an unabridged version. It was release on Dec 28, 2012 (current price: US $6.95).

The CD will be released on Feb 15, 2013 at amazon.com (current price: US $29.95) and amazon.de (current price EUR 26,99). Dec 22, 2012 On Dec 21, 2012, Lucy Butler (@thelucybutler) posted on her Twitter account the following news:

#StevenCulp from #GreysAnatomy and #DesperateHousewives just added to the cast of #TheLadywiththeAlligatorPurse. WOW!

and

Start filming #TheLadywiththeAlligatorPurse Jan 4. What a cast! I am directing. #BrendaStrong from #Dallas and #DesperateHousewives stars.

Click here for more information about the movie. Dec 9, 2012 For German fans:

Die Folge "Grey's Anatomy - Der 30. Tag" (9x01) mit Steven wird am Mittwoch, den 9. Januar 2013 um 20.15 Uhr bei Pro 7 ausgestrahlt. Nov 24, 2012 Steven's short movie "Dark Matters" is available to watch online here. Nov 12, 2012 For German fans:

Die Folge "Burn Notice - Entführt" mit Steven wird am Montag, 12. November 2012 um 22.15 Uhr bei VOX ausgestrahlt. Nov 11, 2012 First Glance Film Festival has announced Award winner for Best Actor:

And the winner is….

"Steven Culp" --- for winning the Award for Best Actor

Congratulations to Steven!

Nov 6, 2012 Sneak Peek with Steven on "Grey's Anatomy" episode 9.05 "Beautiful Doom"

(May 12, 2013 eddited to add: The video is not available anymore.) Oct 30, 2012 Steven's short movie "Refresh" will be shown at the First Glance Film Festival in Philadelphia

"Refresh" is scheduled to screen on Saturday, November 10, 2012 at 2:00 p.m.

Location: Franklin Theater in The Franklin Institute, 222 N 20th St, Philadelphia, PA 19103.

Synopsis:

Refresh (David Orr, 13 min, CA) A wealthy yet chronically unhappy businessman (Steven Culp) at the end of his rope hires a mysterious company who provide an effective - but drastic and irrevocable - solution to his problem. Starring Steven Culp, Scott Michael Campbell, Matt Moore, Calvin Moore. Oct 29, 2012 ABC published the press release for "Grey's Anatomy" episode 9.06 "Second Opinion"

Unfortunately, they have not included the guest stars, yet again. We have to wait a little longer until we know if Steven will appear in the episode.

As soon as I found out, I'll post it here. If you find it out first, please let me now. :-)

THE DOCTORS ARE FACED WITH A TOUGH DECISION AS THEY MOVE FORWARD WITH THE CRASH LAWSUIT, ON ABC'S "GREY'S ANATOMY"

"Second Opinion" – As the doctors continue with their lawsuit, they're forced to confront the realities of their injuries. Meanwhile, Bailey tricks Arizona into helping her with a pediatric case, and Cristina tries to find normalcy in her new environment, on "Grey's Anatomy," THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15 (9:00-10:02 p.m., ET) on the ABC Television Network.

"Grey's Anatomy" stars Ellen Pompeo as Meredith Grey, Patrick Dempsey as Derek Shepherd, Sandra Oh as Cristina Yang, Justin Chambers as Alex Karev, Chandra Wilson as Miranda Bailey, James Pickens, Jr. as Richard Webber, Sara Ramirez as Callie Torres, Kevin McKidd as Owen Hunt, Jessica Capshaw as Arizona Robbins, Jesse Williams as Jackson Avery and Sarah Drew as April Kepner.

Guest cast TBA.

"Second Opinion" was written by Bill Harper and directed by Chandra Wilson.

Oct 23, 2012 Sneak Peek video and captures with Steven on "Grey's Anatomy" episode 9.04 "I Saw Her Standing There" is posted on a (Big Spoiler Alert: don't look if you want to remain spoiler free. You cannot forget it when you have watched it once.)

(May 12, 2013 eddited to add: The video is not available anymore.) Oct 23, 2012 * ABC published the press release for "Grey's Anatomy" episode 9.05 "Beautiful Doom"

Unfortunately, they have not included the guest stars, yet. We have to wait a little longer until we know if Steven will appear in the episode. Let's cross our fingers that his name will be included !!! :-)

As soon as I found out, I'll post it here. If you find it out first, please let me now. :-)

MEREDITH AND CRISTINA CONTINUE TO RELY ON EACH OTHER FOR SUPPORT WHILE LIVING MILES APART, ON ABC'S "GREY'S ANATOMY"

"Beautiful Doom" - In this Meredith & Cristina-centric episode, the two friends continue to cope with life after the plane crash and their ever-growing responsibilities at their respective hospitals. As Meredith juggles taking care of Zola with a case that hits close to home, Cristina assists Dr. Thomas on a challenging heart surgery, on "Grey's Anatomy," THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8 (9:00-10:02 p.m., ET) on the ABC Television Network.

"Grey's Anatomy" stars Ellen Pompeo as Meredith Grey, Patrick Dempsey as Derek Shepherd, Sandra Oh as Cristina Yang, Justin Chambers as Alex Karev, Chandra Wilson as Miranda Bailey, James Pickens, Jr. as Richard Webber, Sara Ramirez as Callie Torres, Kevin McKidd as Owen Hunt, Jessica Capshaw as Arizona Robbins, Jesse Williams as Jackson Avery and Sarah Drew as April Kepner.

Guest cast TBA. (Update Nov 8, 2012: The guest stars are still not listed)

"Beautiful Doom" was written by Jeannine Renshaw and directed by Stephen Cragg.

(* November 9, 2012 - edited to add: hollywoodreporter.com)

Grey's Anatomy (9.2 million, 3.2)

Oct 19, 2012 Promotion video (with Steven) of "Grey's Anatomy" episode 9.04 "I Saw Her Standing There"

(Big Spoiler Alert: don't look if you don't want to know. You cannot forget it when you have watched it once.)

(May 12, 2013 eddited to add: The video is not available anymore.) Oct 13, 2012 Sneak Peek with Steven on "Grey's Anatomy" episode 9.03 "Love the One You're With"

(May 12, 2013 eddited to add: The video is not available anymore.)

(hollywoodreporter.com, by Lesley Goldberg)

Elsewhere, Cristina (Sandra Oh) begins to make new friends in Minnesota -- with Dr. Parker (Desperate Housewives' Steven Culp) -- as the shop talk turns potentially flirtatious. Oct 10, 2012 According to an ABC press release, Steven will appear on the episode "I Saw Her Standing There" of "Grey's Anatomy"

(ABC press release)

CATHERINE AVERY RETURNS TO SEATTLE GRACE TO HELP THE DOCTORS WITH AN EXTRA LARGE SURGERY, ON ABC'S "GREY'S ANATOMY"

"I Saw Her Standing There" - Aware that Derek might never operate again, Meredith stops talking about the surgeries she's performing. Meanwhile, Richard calls on Dr. Catherine Avery to help him perform a complicated procedure, as things continue to heat up between Jackson and April; and Arizona's struggle to accept her fate forces Callie and Alex to face their guilt, on "Grey's Anatomy," THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25 (9:00-10:02 p.m., ET) on the ABC Television Network.

"Grey's Anatomy" stars Ellen Pompeo as Meredith Grey, Patrick Dempsey as Derek Shepherd, Sandra Oh as Cristina Yang, Justin Chambers as Alex Karev, Chandra Wilson as Miranda Bailey, James Pickens, Jr. as Richard Webber, Sara Ramirez as Callie Torres, Kevin McKidd as Owen Hunt, Jessica Capshaw as Arizona Robbins, Jesse Williams as Jackson Avery and Sarah Drew as April Kepner.

Guest starring Debbie Allen as Catherine Avery, Steven Culp as Dr. Parker, Ethan Embry as David, Trever O'Brian as Bryan, Gaius Charles as Intern Shane, Camilla Luddington as Intern Josaphine, Tina Majorino as Intern Heather, Jerrika Hinton as Intern Stephanie, Tessa Ferrer as Intern Leah, Marcuis W. Harris as Rob with William Daniels as Dr. Thomas.

"I Saw Her Standing There" was written by Austin Guzman and directed by Kevin McKidd. Oct 1, 2012 * According to an ABC press release, Steven will appear on the episode "Love the One You're With" of "Grey's Anatomy"

(ABC press release)

THE DOCTORS MUST COMET TOGETHER TO MAKE AN IMPOSSIBLE DECISION, ON ABC'S "GREY'S ANATOMY"

"Love the One You're With" - The survivors from the crash are asked to make an almost impossible decision that will affect the rest of their lives. Meanwhile, tension grows between Jackson and April after they're forced to work together, and Alex tries to restrain himself with one of the interns, on "Grey's Anatomy," THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18 (9:00-10:02 p.m., ET) on the ABC Television Network.

"Grey's Anatomy" stars Ellen Pompeo as Meredith Grey, Patrick Dempsey as Derek Shepherd, Sandra Oh as Cristina Yang, Justin Chambers as Alex Karev, Chandra Wilson as Miranda Bailey, James Pickens, Jr. as Richard Webber, Sara Ramirez as Callie Torres, Eric Dane as Mark Sloan, Kevin McKidd as Owen Hunt, Jessica Capshaw as Arizona Robbins, Jesse Williams as Jackson Avery and Sarah Drew as April Kepner.

Guest cast for "Love the One You're With" includes William Daniels as Dr. Thomas, Steven Culp as Dr. Parker, Camilla Luddington as Jo, Gaius Charles as Shane, Jerrika Hinton as Stephanie, Stefanie Black as Roxie, Ned Vaughn as airline lawyer, Skyler Day as Emery, Rebecca Lowman as Hazel and Meeghan Holaway as attorney.

The episode was written by Zoanne Clark and directed by Debbie Allen.

(* October 19, 2012 - edited to add: tvbythenumbers.com)

Grey's Anatomy notched a 3.3 adults 18-49 rating, down 13% from a 3.8 for its last new episode

(* October 20, 2012 - edited to add: tvbythenumbers.com)

Grey's Anatomy managed a 3.4 rating and 9.69 million viewers, by far a season low, and the lowest rating and audience stats of a third episode of a season in the history of the series. Sep 11, 2012 * According to an ABC press release, Steven will appear on the episode "Going Going Gone" of "Grey's Anatomy"

(ABC press release)

SEASON PREMIERE OF GREY'S ANATOMY (9/27)

THE DOCTORS MUST PICK UP THE PIECES AFTER A TRAGIC PLANE CRASH, ON THE SEASON 9 PREMIERE OF ABC'S "GREY'S ANATOMY"

"Going Going Gone" - The doctors of Seattle Grace are faced with the aftermath of last season's plane crash. As they try to move on with their lives, they must learn to adapt to the changes, cope with their losses and move forward with their relationships and careers, on the ninth-season premiere of "Grey's Anatomy," THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27 (9:00-10:02 p.m., ET) on the ABC Television Network.

"Grey's Anatomy" stars Ellen Pompeo as Meredith Grey, Patrick Dempsey as Derek Shepherd, Sandra Oh as Cristina Yang, Justin Chambers as Alex Karev, Chandra Wilson as Miranda Bailey, James Pickens, Jr. as Richard Webber, Sara Ramirez as Callie Torres, Eric Dane as Mark Sloan, Kevin McKidd as Owen Hunt, Jessica Capshaw as Arizona Robbins, Jesse Williams as Jackson Avery and Sarah Drew as April Kepner.

Guest cast for "Going Going Gone" includes William Daniels as Dr. Thomas, Jason George as Ben, Steven Culp as Dr. Parker, Gaius Charles as Shane, Philip Casnoff as Dr. Mel Barnett, Camilla Luddington as Josephine, Tina Majorina as Heather, Jerrika Hinton as Stephanie and Tessa Ferrer as Leah.

The episode was written by Stacy McKee and directed by Rob Corn.

"Grey's Anatomy" was created and is executive produced by Shonda Rhimes ("Scandal", "Private Practice", "Introducing Dorothy Dandridge"). Betsy Beers ("Scandal", "Private Practice", "Casanova"), Mark Gordon ("Saving Private Ryan"), Rob Corn ("Chicago Hope"), Tony Phelan and Joan Rater ("Law& Order: Trial by Jury") are executive producers. "Grey's Anatomy" is an ABC Studios production.

"Grey's Anatomy" is broadcasted in 720 Progressive (720P), ABC's selected HTV format, with 5.1-channel surround sound. This program carries a TV-14,D,L,S parental guideline.

(* September 29, 2012 - edited to add: tvbythenumbers.com)

9 pm Grey's Anatomy

18-49 Rating: 4.4

18-49 Share: 12

Viewers Live+SD: 11.73 million

(* September 29, 2012 - edited to add: hitfix.com)

ABC's "Grey's Anatomy" won the hour with a 4.3 key demo rating and averaged a 11.55 million viewers for second. Sep 17, 2012 According to The Chicago 8 Facebook page, the movie will screen in Los Angeles on September 18, 2012.

"The Los Angeles PREMIERE of THE CHICAGO 8 will be held Wednesday, September 18 at the University of California Los Angeles School of Law for students and professors. This screening is for invitees only."

Sep 15, 2012 The DVD of Steven's movie "The Chicago 8" is available to buy on Amazon.com.

"The Chicago 8"

DVD front cover "The Chicago 8"

DVD back cover

Sep 10, 2012 According to The Chicago 8 Feature Film Facebook page, The Chicago 8 will screen at the Royale in Bisbee, AZ on September 12, 2012. Sep 8, 2012 "Opus" is now available to listen to for free on the L.A. Theatre Works website:

http://www.bigcontact.com/latw/opus-part-one

http://www.bigcontact.com/latw/opus-part-two

"Opus will be available on CD and download soon" !!! :-) Sep 6, 2012 "The Chicago 8" is available to buy and rent on iTunes.

Sep 5, 2012 "The Chicago 8" is available to buy (as a movie file) and rent on Amazon.com.

Sep 5, 2012 Steven latest radio play "Opus" is available to listen to on the website prx.org.

Just register ... it's free ... and you can listen to the play with Steven! :-) Sep 5, 2012 Steven's movie "The Chicago 8" can be ordered on DVD through the official website of the movie.

Sep 4, 2012 * PeoplesChoice.com created a poll where you can vote which of Steven's previous series is your favorite.

You can only vote the next 6 days.

(* September 12, 2012 - edited to add the results)

The results are interesting:

Sep 4, 2012 According to The Chicago 8 Feature Film Facebook page, The Chicago 8 will screen in Kansas City:

The Chicago 8 will be screened Saturday, September 8 at 6PM at the Kansas City Urban Film Festival. Sep 3, 2012 For German fans:

Die Folge "Desperate Housewives - Frauen und Tod" mit Steven wird am Mittwoch, 5. September 2012 um 21.15 Uhr bei Pro 7 ausgestrahlt. Sep 2, 2012 According to The Chicago 8 Feature Film Facebook page, The Chicago 8 will screen next week:

In Charlotte, North Carolina screening of The Chicago 8 is next week September 4, 5 & 6 at the EPICENTRE Theaters 2nd Floor above plaza, 210 East Trade Street. Sep 1, 2012 To make it official now:

Congratulations to Steven for getting the recurring role on "Grey's Anatomy" !!!

Official press releases regarding Steven's appearances on "Grey's Anatomy" were published:

(deadline.com, by Nellie Andreeva)

Several TV Series Book Recurring Actors

Desperate Housewives alum Steven Culp is back on ABC with a recurring role on Grey's Anatomy, playing Dr. Parker, a top dog doctor. He is with Domain and manager Miriam Milgrom.

More articles can be found here.

Aug 26, 2012 The Chicago 8

One Night Only Screening

Thursday, September 13, 7:30pm - 9:24pm

in North Hollywood, CA at Laemmle's NoHo 7 $10.00

This event will only happen if 94 people reserve a ticket.

Aug 16, 2012 News from Mr. Steven Culp himself:

(Thank you, thank you, Steven!)

During the Star Trek convention in Las Vegas, Steven said he would not only appear in the first episode of "Grey's Anatomy" but also in the third episode of "Grey's Anatomy".

The first episode will air Sep 27, 2012 and the third episode will air Oct 11, 2012. Aug 7, 2012

According to the L.A. Theatre Works website, Steven's radio play "Opus," he recorded last May, will be broadcast as an abridged version on September 8, 2012. It will also be available to listen to on the website. Aug 3, 2012 News from Mr. Steven Culp himself:

(Thank you, thank you, Steven!)

Steven apologized for not letting us know in advance that he had filmed an episode of "Longmire." He filmed it in June and did not know it would air so quickly.

He recently filmed the season opener of "Grey's Anatomy" !!! (I looked it up and it will air on ABC on September 27, 9:00-10:00 p .m., ET/PT)

He confirmed that he did shoot a series of commercials for AT&T last year but he has not seen them yet, even though they have started to appear regionally (I guess he must have read the news entry about the commercials on the website :-D It's great that we know it is more than one commercial. I hope sooner or later they will appear on YouTube.)

At the end he apologized again and said he will try to be more prompt with information next time. :-)

Comments, thoughts are welcome on the SConTV Facebook page. Jul 26, 2012 As previously announced Steven is scheduled to appear on the Official Star Trek convention in Las Vegas on Sunday, August 12, 2012.

The schedule was published to the website.

Steven's appearances:

12:10 pm - in The Palma Room Photo Op: Steven Culp, tickets $35

12:50 pm - in the DeForest Kelley Theatre - Brasilia Ballroom: The Star Trek Life with popular actors: Steven Culp, Jennifer Hetrick and Glenn Morshower

5:40 pm - on the other side of The Roddenberry Theatre - Pavilion Ballroom: Autographs with Alice Krige, Steven Culp, and Jennifer Hetrick (tickets available at the autograph ticket booth, front far right of the vendors room, for $30 for Alice and Steven and $35 for Jennifer Hetrick.) Jul 25, 2012 Unfortunately it happened again :-((

I just found out that Steven appeared on the A&E serie "Longmire" last Sunday (July 22, 2012). The episode was called "An Incredibly Beautiful Thing", number 1.08

I'm sorry I did not post it before the episode aired, but I did not find out about it until about 30 min ago.

For those in the US you can download the episode on ITunes or/and buy it from the official site.

The episode re-airs:

Sunday, July 29 @ 11 pm

Sunday, August 5 @ 1 pm

Monday, August 6 @ 9 pm

Tuesday, August 7 @ 1 am

I will post the captures as soon as possible. - Captures are can be found here now.

(edited to add: Sunday's Cable Ratings on thefutoncritic.com)

Longmire - A&E: 4.541 million viewers, #1; 1.104 million adults 18-49 (0.9 rating), #9 Jul 22, 2012 Please read and help, if you can:

I found an entry (written in March) in a forum that says the following:

"I think I saw Steven Culp, who played Major Hayes, in a commercial that just started running for AT&T. The actor's voice was familiar, and I had to see the commercial a few times to convince myself it's him. It's the commercial where the wife is talking to the phone company, daughter rushes in to say she's been accepted at Juilliard, and wife then asks about bundling services, while daughter and hubby (Culp) are in the background. His hair is different in more ways than one -- longer, and gray!"

After reading that message I tried to find a video online and was looking at every AT&T commercial I could find, but had no luck.

Now I read a new entry on my Facebook page "a friend in the U.S. Midwest has told me that Mr. Culp is currently appearing in a series of television commercials for AT&T UVerse. I think it might be a regional thing, because I haven't seen the ads yet in the New York City area."

I tried to find a video clip online again, but could not find one.

If anyone who reads this knows where I can find one, please let me know. If anyone is able to record the commercial, please do so and let me know. I'd love to see it. Thanks! :-) Jul 19, 2012 The official website and the official Facebook page of Steven's movie "The Chicago 8" were changed. Check them out:

Official website Official Facebook page

Jul 15, 2012 For German fans:

Die Folge "All About Betrayal / Alles über Verrat" von "Privileged" wird am 16. Juli 2012 um 21.05 Uhr auf Sixx ausgestrahlt. Jul 2, 2012 It is possible to pre-order the DVD of Steven's movie "The Chicago 8" to be shipped sometime in August 2012.

Just go to the website and enter your name and email with the word DVD in the subject, then, when the DVD is ready for shipment, they will point you to a secure site to enter in final information needed to ship out the DVD. Jul 1, 2012 For German fans:

Die Folge "All About the Big Picture / Alles über das große Ganze" von "Privileged" wird am 2. Juli 2012 um 21.05 Uhr auf Sixx ausgestrahlt. Jun 26, 2012 Steven's movie "The Chicago 8" is also present on an official Facebook page: thechicago8.

Click like to get the latest news and information about the movie.

It is run by the movie's publicist Richard Halpern. Jun 25, 2012 According to the publicist of the movie "The Chicago 8", Richard Halpern, the movie will be released to the world on September 4, 2012. Jun 21, 2012 Steven's movie "The Chicago 8" that he filmed in Sep/Oct 2009 has its own official website now. It can be reached at http://www.thechicago8.com

It includes press release, photos (unfortunately none with Steven so far) and the trailer. Other features will be available later. Jun 9, 2012 Steven will appear on the next episode of "Drop Dead Diva" that airs on Lifetime next Sunday, June 10, 2012.

(nicegirlstv.com)

Another new episode of Drop Dead Diva entitled "Home" will air this coming Sunday (June 10, 2012), featuring guest stars Steven Culp (of Desperate Housewives fame) and John Ratzenberger (of Cheers fame) in stories that will greatly affect Jane (Brooke Elliott) and Kim (Kate Levering).

"Home" is the second episode of the fourth season of Drop Dead Diva and it will air on Lifetime this Sunday, June 10 at 9 PM. Jun 1, 2012 Steven's short movie "Dark Matters" will be shown during the East End Film Festival in July. The East End Film Festival is one of the biggest film festivals in London, UK.

The screening takes place on July 7, 2012 at 23.30pm at Rio in Dalston, London, UK. May 20, 2012 Steven's short movie "Refresh" will be shown during the Playhouse West Film Festival in June.

The screening takes place on June 9, 2012 at the El Portal Theater at 5269 Lankershim Blvd. North Hollywood, CA 91601. May 17, 2012 Kevin Chamberlin posted a photo of Steven and the cast of "Opus" on his Twitter account yesterday night.

Kevin Chamberlin: "Jere Burns, Steven Culp, Liza Weil at rehearsal for our LA Theaterworks version of Michael Hollinger's 'Opus'" May 15, 2012 (LA Theatre Works Facebook page)

Sex, Drugs, and Chamber Music collide in just TWO DAYS!

May 17 - May 20: OPUS starring Kevin Chamberlin, Liza Weil, Jonathan Adams, Steven Culp, and Jere Burns, directed by Brendon Fox. at UCLA - James Bridges Theater