Some of Bibi Gaytan's children are following in her footsteps in the entertainment industry. The actress is a proud mother to five children, who she shares with her husband, actor Eduardo Capetillo.

Advertisement

Bibi Gaytan first rose to fame in Mexico for her musical talent as she joined the Timbiriche group. She later became a household name when she was cast in "Alcanzar Una Estrella II," a Mexican telenovela.

Her career soon became a whirlwind of success, but she wasn't the only one famous in her family. Bibi had three other brothers in the entertainment industry, including Alejandro Gaytan, Chacho Gaytan, and Mano Gaytan.

Advertisement

She also married an entertainer, Eduardo Capetillo, with whom she shares five children, Eduardo Jr. Alejandra, Ana Paula, Daniel, and Manuel.

Eduardo Capetillo Jr. Is the Oldest of Bibi Gaytan's Children

Eduardo Jr., Bibi's firstborn child, turned 28 in August 2022. The younger Eduardo is an active Instagram user and often shares photos depicting his close bond with his family. He usually posts tributes to family members during special occasions, such as birthdays.

Besides his family, Eduardo Jr. shares photos with his horses, bikes, and dogs, suggesting what he finds interesting.

Advertisement

It appears Bibi's son is also a singer, as he previously performed on stage, as mentioned in a post. Although Eduardo Jr.'s job is unknown, his iMDB profile claims he appeared in one television show, "High Heat."

Ana Paula Capetillo Starred in a TV Series

Ana Paula, like her parents, is an artist. She is an actress known for "El Rey, Vicente Fernandez" and "Biby y Eduardo el Reality."

Although they came 20 years after tying the knot with Eduardo, the twins' parents remain hands-on in caring for them.

Her Instagram gives fans a glimpse into her personal life, although she often utilizes the platform to showcase her talents. Besides acting, Ana Paula is a singer and ballerina. She previously posted a guitar cover of her singing Olivia Rodrigo's "Favorite Crime."

Advertisement

She also posts photos with her family on Instagram to commemorate and celebrate birthdays and special events.

Alejandra Capetillo Lives in Madrid Now

Alejandra has chosen a career different from her siblings. She is a model and vlogger who lives in Madrid, Spain, but visits her family in Mexico. She is also an active social media user and often shares her life with her boyfriend, Nader Shoueiry, and their two dogs.

Interestingly, their relationship previously caused controversy. Shoueiry is a Lebanese man who brought his girlfriend to his homeland to meet his family in August 2022. Because of his roots, fans told Alejandra to beware of men from the East. "You have to be careful with those men," one person said.

Advertisement

Alejandra seems unshaken by people's opinions and remains happy and in love. She even wears a promise ring on her finger.

Daniel and Manuel Are Bibi Gaytán’s Twins

Daniel and Manuel are the youngest of Bibi's children, born when she was 41. Although they came 20 years after tying the knot with Eduardo, the twins' parents remain hands-on in caring for them.

"Bibi says that one of the babies has a mouth identical to mine," Eduardo said. Mexican doctors previously claimed the twins would be fraternal. However, their US doctors said otherwise, making them identical twins.

Advertisement

Manuel and Daniel were named after their maternal and paternal grandfathers, Daniel Gaytan and Manuel Caperillo. They share a close bond with their oldest brother, who enjoys caring for them.

Like Bibi's family, many Mexican entertainers have gained popularity in the US, including Manuel Garcia-Rulfo, who took the lead in Netflix's "The Lincoln Lawyer," and singer Vicente Fernandez, whose son is also in the music industry.