Who is Alejandro Gaytán’s wife?

Biby Gaytán’s brother lives in Canada.

He’s a successful businessman.

Actress and singer Biby Gaytán and Eduardo Capetillo have one of the most solid marriages in the entertainment industry.

Biby, who gained fame as a member of Timbiriche, has five children. Three of them are following in her showbiz footsteps.

She also has four siblings: Rodrigo, Daniel, Chacho (a member of Sentidos Opuestos) and Alejandro Gaytán.

Little is known about Alejandro, who appeared in some soap operas in the nineties. Many ask: Who is Alejandro Gaytán’s wife?

Biby Gaytán’s brother lives a low-key life

According to Debate, Alejandro Gaytán was in a musical group, just like Chacho and Biby Gaytán.

However, it didn’t take long for him to decide he wasn’t interested in the showbiz world and he opted for a more normal life.

Today he lives in Canada, with his wife and children, where he’s a successful businessman.

There was once a rumor that he didn’t have the best relationship with his siblings, but this isn’t the case.

People admire Alejandro Gaytán’s family

In early October, Alejandro Gaytán shared a photo where he showed off his beautiful family.

«Happy Thanksgiving. Thank you for your life, your health, and your love… Thank you for being a team in good times and bad,» he wrote.

Biby Gaytán’s brother appears with his wife and three children, whose names he doesn’t share.

Actress Geraldine Bazán was among the first to tell him that he has a «beautiful family,» just like many other followers.

Wishing Alejandro Gaytán’s wife a happy birthday

On March 20 of last year, Alejandro Gaytán dedicated an emotional message to his wife on her birthday.

«Happy birthday to my beautiful wife, the woman who changed my life and gave me the three most beautiful children in the world,» he wrote.

Finally, Biby Gaytán’s brother didn’t want to reveal his wife’s age, but he made sure to tell her that he loved her.

It’s worth noting that he never refers to her by name, but a user revealed it. Alejandro Gaytán’s wife’s name is Amalia.