The Nor-Fishing Foundation is an ideal non-profit organization, founded by and run on behalf of the Norwegian Seafood Federation. Through a variety of activities, the Nor-Fishing Foundation contribute to and promote development in the maritime sector – regularly hosting international trade exhibition and exhibitions in Norway.

Industry-owned technology exhibitions

The Foundation organizes the exhibitions Nor-Fishing and Aqua Nor in Trondheim, Norway.

The two exhibition are international meeting places for professionals in the two industries. Today, Nor-Fishing and Aqua Nor are the world’s largest technology exhibitions in fisheries and aquaculture.

Nor-Fishing was first held in 1960, and Aqua Nor for the first time in 1979. The exhibitions are – and have always been – an important arena for development, innovation and marketing in the industry. In addition, they have become a forum for professional development, where conferences and seminars are organized with professional content concerning the latest technological developments in the industry. The exhibitions are organized for the fisheries and aquaculture industries – attracting visitors and exhibitors from fishing boats, fish farms and the technology and innovation companies, as well as representatives from boardrooms and political industry management.

The Nor-Fishing Foundation

The Nor-Fishing Foundation, responsible for the exhibitions Nor-Fishing and Aqua Nor, was established by the Norwegian Parliament as an independent institution in 1992, after the exhibitions had been organized for many years through a collaboration between the Ministry of Fisheries, the Directorate of Fisheries and interest groups in the industry.

Since the Foundation is self-owned, all funds generated by the events are channeled back to activities that promote development in the marine sector. No owners take out dividends, or have other commercial interests. Over the years, a capital has been built up, which ensures the development and implementation of future exhibitions. This ensures the exhibitions continued presence as the industry’s most important meeting place for innovative solutions – even in times of recession for the fisheries and aquaculture industry. In fact, it is often in recessions the Foundation’s activities are needed the most, offering among other things financial support to different competence and recruitment activities for the industry.

The Board of Directors

The Foundation is managed by a Board of Directors, consisting of seven members. The day-to-day operations are handled by a separate administration that reports to the Board. The Board consists of representatives from the seafood industry, which means that it is the industry itself that manages the development of the exhibitions and other activities under the patronage and direction of the Foundation. The Norwegian Fishermen’s Association, Seafood Norway, the Norwegian Seafood Council, Innovation Norway and Trondheim Municipality are represented on the Foundation’s Board.

The Board of Directors consists of the following members: