Just discovered Rob Fisher (Keyboardist) One half of the 80s Pop duo band Naked Eyes & Climie Fisher had passed away on August 25, 1999 at age 39 :P

Just curious how many of you are a big fan or do remember him? Do read more :- http://elvispelvis.com/robfisher.htm

Rob Fisher's tribute -----------

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zMAe31FFHbo

Naked Eyes - Always Something There To Remind Me

Naked Eyes - Promises Promises

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xZliiH0xTIo&feature=related

Climie Fisher - Rise To The Occasion (1987)

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZRXM0FY_qs0

Climie Fisher - Love Changes Everything (1997)

One of the duo that I listened to a lot in my early music days.

I still remember Naked Eyes and Tears for Fears used to be from the same group.

They split and went to form 2 pairs instead!

Both bands created good memorable music for me!

This used to be one of my favourite...

didn't know that they performed together with TFF before forming their own bands...

as for TFF, it's onl when they release Seeds of Love that I started enjoying all their previouos hits...still do, quarter century later ;D!!

I too was surprised of the connection between Rob Fisher and Tears For Fear...and this is what was reported in wikipedia

".....Naked Eyes consisted of childhood friends from Bath, England: Pete Byrne on vocals and Rob Fisher on keyboards.

The two had formerly played in a band called Neon with future members of Tears for Fears...."

"....Orzabal and Smith met as teenagers in their home city of Bath, Somerset, in southwest England. The duo became session musicians for the band Neon,[3] where they first met future Tears For Fears drummer Manny Elias. Neon also featured Pete Byrne and Rob Fisher who went on to become Naked Eyes. Smith and Orzabal's professional debut came with the band Graduate, a Mod Revival/New Wave act. In 1980, Graduate released an album, Acting My Age, and a single "Elvis Should Play Ska" (referring to Elvis Costello, not Presley). The single just missed the Top 100 in the UK, though it performed well in Spain and in Switzerland...."

I've always been looking for a good compilation of Naked Eyes' greatest hits; never found a good one (or at least, one that was discounted...)

It was rather tragic, but it's pretty old news, after all. Surprised you didn't already know.

One by one, the lead singers of these bands we grew up with are gone....seems to be happening more often in past 10 years. I still remember I taped Naked Eyes and Big Country from Valentine on a metal tape.. The electric drum of Naked Eyes and bagpipe of Big Country still ringing in my ears...

i also didnt know Stuart Adamson of Big Country had passed away in 2001 till someone mentioned it here ???