We didn't forget about our semi-regular Sunday series systematically laying out the case why Ray Davies is the best songwriter ever in rock & roll, we just got busy. I put out a new tune, click here to listen, and with summer and gigs and the coffee shop and... anyway, let's get on with it. Enjoy! - Colin G.

Click here for Ray Davies is the best songwriter exhibit H

The Kinks - "Working at the Factory" written by Ray Davies

Sure, Think Visual isn't a masterpiece relative to other Kinks efforts, but as always, it has a number of gems scattered throughout. Considering this is TWENTY FIRST album released by The Kinks makes the it that much more impressive. Or put another way, has your favorite band released twenty- one records? That's what I thought. Get bent. Ray Davies is the best.

"Working At The Factory"

All my life, I've been a workin' man

When I was at school they said that's all you'll ever understand

No profession, I didn't figure in their plans

So they sent me down the factory to be a workin' man

All I lived for, all I lived for

All I lived for was to get out of the factory

Now I'm here seemingly free, but working at the factory

Then music came along and gave new life to me

And gave me hope back in 1963

The music came and set me free

From working at the factory

All I lived for, all I lived for

Was to get out of the factory

All I lived for, all I lived for

Was to get out of the factory

Never wanted to be like everybody else

But now there are so many like me sitting on the shelf

They sold us a dream but in reality

It was just another factory

I made the music, thought that it was mine

It made me free, but that was in another time

But then the corporations and the big combines

Turned musicians into factory workers on assembly lines

All we live for, all we live for

All we live for is to get out of the factory

We made the music to set ourselves free

From working at the factory

All my life I've put in a working day

Now it's sign the contract, get production on the way

Take the money, make the music pay

Working at the factory

All I lived for was to get out of the factory

Never wanted to be like everybody else

But now there are so many like me sitting on the shelf

They sold us a dream that in reality

Was just another factory

Working at the factory