Minister Anthony Darell Brown Sr. was born May 6, 1963, in Odessa, Tx. to parents Reverend Euclid Eugene Brown Sr. & Rosie Peal Williams-Redic.

He accepted the Lord at a very early age. Anthony attended King Solomon, Pilgrim Rest Baptist Church, Bethlehem, Church of the living God where he was ordained as a Minister under the direction of Titus Woodard, his mentor and friend. He led the youth department in which, they were called the “Future”.

Anthony was a faithful member at Faith in Christ Church under the pastorage of Pastor Ellis Lane until his homegoing on March 7, 2024. He loved God, his church family, and especially his Junior high class youth where he called them the “future”.

His passions were cooking, he was an experienced Sous Chef, gardening, shopping at goodwill, garage sales, and anything on clearance. He also loved dancing, his specialty was pop locking, where he was in a group in high school. he also loved his dog, Sugar.

He loved to talk about his children, grandchildren, and great grandchildren.

He is now resting with his parents, Euclid Eugene Brown Sr, Rosie Pearl Williams-Redic, a sister Ruth Staab, and husband Mike, 2 brothers, Greg Williams, and Eugene Euclid Brown Jr.

He is survived by: Wife, Cheryl Brown of Crane, Aneshia “Pearl” Brown of Denton, Anthony Darell Brown Jr. (wife Felicia) of Wichita Falls, Layuna Antoinette “Nana” Brown (husband Nicholas) of Wichita Falls, Antwan Xavier Brown of Fort Worth.

The stepchildren who called him Pops: Curtis Andre Rogers (wife Crystal) of Monahans, Edward James “EJ” Fowler (wife Marisol) of Midland, and Jamonica Geter (husband Chase), of Arlington.

21 grandchildren, 3 great grandchildren, numerous nieces, nephews, cousins, and special friends Titus Woodard, (Dorothy), Grady Turner, Lavern Randolph.

A celebration of life will be held on Saturday March 16, 2024, at 1:00 pm at Ekklesia of Crane. Burial will follow at Sunset Cemetery in Crane. Dinner to follow (tba). All are welcome to join the family.