Republican Steve Watkins and Democrat Paul Davis aggressively challenged the truthfulness and integrity of each other Monday night in a televised debate among candidates in the 2nd District of eastern Kansas.

Davis, a Lawrence attorney who served a dozen years in the Kansas House, said he was running for Congress to restore bipartisan work ethic to politics of Washington, D.C.

He also questioned why Watkins claimed to be a fan of Donald Trump, but didn't vote for the GOP nominee in 2016. He said Watkins often bragged about starting a business overseas, but that didn't match reality. He said Watkins was fond of highlighting Kansas roots, but owns two homes in Alaska and none in Kansas.

"Fellow Republicans have called my opponent, Steve Watkins, a liar, a fraud and a rank opportunist," Davis said. "We have a broken Congress and we have no choice but to fix it. It starts by sending a proven problem solver to represent us in Washington."

Watkins, who grew up in Topeka but spent most of the past two decades in college, the U.S. Army or working as a private contractor in overseas, told the KTWU audience in a forum sponsored by the Kansas League of Women Voters that Davis was a career politician using lies to detract from his liberal instincts.

"In the Kansas Statehouse, Paul Davis has racked up an extremely liberal voting record, perfect fit for his district in east Lawrence, but not in line with Kansas 2nd," Watkins said. "Paul likes tax hikes, abortions and higher spending. He will do everything and anything to detract you from his voting record, and most notably, lying about mine."

Watkins rejected published reports and Davis' assertions that he misled people about his role as building an engineering security company in Afghanistan and Iraq. And, Watkins repeated an allegation Davis would back U.S. Rep. Nancy Pelosi for a House leadership post, despite assurances by Davis that he wouldn't.

"He lies," Watkins said.

The only candidate in the Topeka studio who didn't portray a rival as gigantic fibber — Libertarian Party nominee Kelly Standley — did conclude neither the Republican nor Democratic parties could be trusted to properly represent Kansans.

"The problem we have today is that current representatives choose to represent their party instead of their constituents. It is time to clean the muck out of the swamp," Standley said.

Voters in the district decide Nov. 6 on a replacement for U.S. Rep. Lynn Jenkins, a five-term Republican who didn't seek re-election.