Ranked By

1.4K votes

275 voters

1 reranks

Voting Rules

Vote for your favorite movies, regardless of critic reviews or how big the role was.

Latest additions: Prey

Most divisive: Nowhere

Over 200 Ranker voters have come together to rank this list of The 30+ Best Ryan Phillippe Movies

List of the best Ryan Phillippe movies, ranked best to worst with movie trailers when available. Ryan Phillippe's highest grossing movies have received a lot of accolades over the years, earning millions upon millions around the world. The order of these top Ryan Phillippe movies is decided by how many votes they receive, so only highly rated Ryan Phillippe movies will be at the top of the list. Ryan Phillippe has been in a lot of films, so people often debate each other over what the greatest Ryan Phillippe movie of all time is. If you and a friend are arguing about this then use this list of the most entertaining Ryan Phillippe films to end the squabble once and for all.

If you think the best Ryan Phillippe role isn't at the top, then upvote it so it has the chance to become number one. The greatest Ryan Phillippe performances didn't necessarily come from the best movies, but in most cases they go hand in hand.

Examples include By Virtue Fall and Cruel Intentions.

"This list answers the questions, "What are the best Ryan Phillippe movies?" and "What are the greatest Ryan Phillippe roles of all time?"

Robert Altman and Ridley Scott are among those who have directed Ryan Phillippe at one point or another during their careers in the film industry. If Ryan Phillippe movies are your thing, then check out the greatest movies by Ryan Gosling and Rodrigo Santoro too.

1

Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippe, Reese Witherspoon

Released : 1999

Directed by : Roger Kumble

In the riveting drama, Cruel Intentions, a game of seduction unfolds within Manhattan's elite teen circle. Kathryn Merteuil (Sarah Michelle Gellar) and Sebastian Valmont (Ryan Phillippe), step-siblings known for their manipulative tricks, set their sights on innocent Annette Hargrove (Reese Witherspoon). The plot thickens as Sebastian, initially viewing Annette as a mere conquest, finds himself entangled in unexpected emotions. This film, a modern take on the classic French novel 'Les Liaisons dangereuses', delves into themes of deception, love and the high stakes of teenage gamesmanship. It's a thrilling exploration of manipulation cloaked in youthful innocence and affluence.

2

Matthew McConaughey, Marisa Tomei, Ryan Phillippe

Released : 2011

Directed by : Brad Furman

Mick Haller (Matthew McConaughey) is a charismatic defense attorney who does business out of his Lincoln Continental sedan. Mick spends most of his time defending petty crooks and other bottom-feeders, so it comes as quite a surprise when he lands the case of a lifetime: defending a Beverly Hills playboy (Ryan Phillippe) who is accused of attempted murder. However, what Mick initially thinks is an open-and-shut case with a big monetary reward develops into something more sinister.

3

Sandra Bullock, Don Cheadle, Matt Dillon

Released : 2004

Directed by : Paul Haggis

Crash, a potent drama directed by Paul Haggis, weaves together the lives of a diverse set of characters in Los Angeles. Racial tension is at the heart of this narrative, with each character - from the district attorney Rick (Brendan Fraser) and his prejudiced wife Jean (Sandra Bullock), to the hardworking locksmith Daniel (Michael Peña) - grappling with their own prejudices and stereotypes. A pivotal car accident links these disparate lives together, setting off a chain reaction of events that challenge their perspectives on race and humanity. This film won the 2006 Academy Award for Best Picture.

4

Released : 1997

Directed by : Jim Gillespie

In I Know What You Did Last Summer, four friends - Julie James (Jennifer Love Hewitt), Ray Bronson (Freddie Prinze Jr.), Helen Shivers (Sarah Michelle Gellar) and Barry Cox (Ryan Phillippe) - grapple with a horrifying secret. After a celebratory night turns tragic, they swear to bury the truth, only for it to resurface in the form of an ominous message one year later. This suspenseful thriller, laden with mystery and terror, follows their desperate attempts to outsmart an unseen stalker. The group's unity is tested as they are plunged into a deadly game of cat-and-mouse, where survival hinges on unearthing hidden truths and confronting their darkest fears.

5

Ryan Phillippe, Benicio Del Toro, James Caan

Released : 2000

Directed by : Christopher McQuarrie

They make no excuses. They don't ask forgiveness. Their story is without compromise, brutal and simple. For contemporary desperados Parker and associate Longbaugh, crime means survival at any cost. Their impromptu plan to kidnap surrogate mother Robin, just weeks from delivering the son of Hale and Francesca Chidduck, seems to be a fast way to cash in on a fat ransom and head for the border. But their haste does indeed make waste.

6

Chris Cooper, Ryan Phillippe, Laura Linney

Released : 2007

Directed by : Billy Ray

Eric O'Neill (Ryan Phillippe), a low-level surveillance expert with the FBI, believes he is accomplishing his dream of becoming a full-fledged agent, with his unexpected promotion and assignment to work with renowned agent Robert Hanssen (Chris Cooper). However, he soon learns the reason for his promotion is to gain Hanssen's trust and find proof that he is a traitor to the country.