" Period music from Edward Shearmur distinguishes itself from the rest "

Written by Thomas Glorieux - Review of the regular release

The Governess is a 1998 British period drama film written and directed by Sandra Goldbacher. The screenplay focuses on a young Jewish woman of Sephardic background, who reinvents herself as a gentile governess when she is forced to find work to support her family. Starring Minnie Driver, Tom Wilkinson and Jonathan Rhys Meyers, it was nominated for a Bafta Award and received critical acclaim for Minnie Driver's performance, Ashley Rowe's cinematography and Edward Shearmur's score.

The opening track "Mary Blackchurch" and the second track "The Box Camera" immediately transport you to the sound of The Governess. In "Mary Blackchurch" there's a plethora of instruments that bring forth an enticing opener. Viola da gamba, flute, piano, lute and the late Ofra Haza (of The Prince of Egypt) create an opener that immediately sets down the period and the religion. And throughout the entire experience you'll be cortically invited to join every single dance.

"Purim Dance" and "Passover" are excellent examples where the percussion, flute and Ofra Haza take us on a dance through Mary Blackchurch's life. "The Veil" even focuses alone on Haza's singing while "Fixation" unleashes the metal harp alongside the viola and piano to create an emotional touching canvas.

And basically this picture doesn't change colors after that. "Salome" moves slowly on the beats of the drums and Haza's singing, "Photographing Cavendish / Adio, Querida" surprises because of the Spanish influence at the end where Haza joins in, "Entr'acte" delivers a more classical sound through the viola and the piano and "Rosina" closes the score with another dance for percussion and flute.

The Governess has Shearmur delivering us interesting period music. There aren't memorable themes nor melodies to hang on to, because the focus is drawn more towards these specific instruments, setting down the period, coloring the life of Mary Blackchurch and the soundtrack in general. From a professional perspective, The Governess hits all the right buttons. From a personal point of view, I'm sure one will like it more than the other. The Governess listens differently and much more interesting than The Wings of the Dove, this because Shearmur's influence is already intriguing on its own.

Tracklisting

1. Mary Blackchurch (3.12)

2. The Box Camera (4.00)

3. Purim Dance (1.55)

4. Passover (3.28)

5. The Veil (1.34)

6. Fixation (3.14)

7. Salome (4.05)

8. Standchen * (3.52)

9. Love and Loss (3.58)

10. Photographing Cavendish / Adio, Querida (7.37)

11. Entr'acte (6.16)

12. Rosina (4.41)

* Performed by Franz Shubert

Total Length: 47.59