“Last week we exposed the inner workings of Cape Town’s extortion rackets, a primitive and often violent money-making scheme bedevilling the city’s glossy nightspots. This week’s exposé is just as chilling, perhaps more so. It takes us into the dark heart of Khayelitsha where even young children can’t escape the bloodlust of money-hungry criminals.” – John Webb, Executive Producer

A Predator’s Grip

Derek Bezuidenhout was a gymnastics coach popular with his colleagues and students. But for ten years, Bezuidenhout allegedly physically, sexually and emotionally abused multiple gymnasts at a club in the Free State. When his alleged crimes were uncovered, he took his own life. Red flags about Bezuidenhout’s conduct started early in his career but no one believed the children, and the club failed to investigate the allegations. Now, several of Bezuidenhout’s victims are speaking out about the predator who groomed and targeted them for years while the club and the Gymnastics Federation allegedly stood idle. Carte Blanche investigates why Bezuidenhout’s alleged abuse was permitted to continue for so long.

Producer: Tarryn Crossman | Presenter: Lourensa Eckard

Khayelitsha

In June this year, four-year-old Enzokuhle Dladlu was playing outside on the street in Khayelitsha when four gunmen entered a barbershop in her neighbourhood and opened fire. One man and three children were killed in the shooting: Enzokuhle was one of them. In Khayelitsha, these mass shootings have become tragically common as rival gangs force businesses and civilians alike to pay protection fees or risk being killed. In a new report, the Global Initiative Against Transnational Organised Crime has identified four growing extortion economies in the province, including transport, construction and township economies. Carte Blanche examines how protection rackets in Khayelitsha are expanding their illicit business portfolio, targeting street vendors, spaza shops, and even churches.

Producer: Catherine Rice | Presenter: Govan Whittles

Wimbledon Wonder

At just 12 years old, Limpopo’s Kgothatso Montjane – who was born with a congenital deformity – had her leg amputated. But she refused to be deterred. An energetic child with big dreams, she first pursued competitive ballroom and Latin American dance, despite her disability. That is until her schoolteachers introduced her to wheelchair tennis. It was a decision that would change her life and see her become one of the country’s best players. Now, she’s a three-time wheelchair tennis grand slam champion and she’s eager to pay it forward and give other athletes the same opportunities to succeed.

Producer: Sinethemba Nogude | Presenter: Macfarlane Moleli

CARTE BLANCHE: THE PODCAST

GPUs in ICU, and Unmasking Blunders

The GNU looks stable, but some GPUs are seemingly headed for the ICU. Then, why it’s time for the EFF to speak up about VBS. Later, Independent Media’s big blunder as a bizarre campaign targets the wrong man. And with the Paris Olympics just days away, we focus on the star South African athletes going for gold. But first, Parliament is in session and there’s a lot of work to be done. Why last week’s Opening of Parliament Address gives us hope for the next five years…

Listen Now

PICKS OF THE WEEK

Extortion City

On the surface, Randolf Jorberg – with his bright yellow t-shirt, sunglasses and newly dyed yellow beard – is an eccentric character. But on the streets of Cape Town, he’s a well-known business owner who used to run one of the best beer houses on Long Street. In recent years, though, Randolf has been forced to retreat from the spotlight as protection rackets targeting small businesses have flourished. Cape Town has become the extortion epicentre, with violent criminal syndicates operating across the city. In 2015, Randolf refused to pay protection money. Weeks later, his doorman was assassinated. He says it was a clear message: pay up or suffer the consequences. Alleged underworld kingpins are currently on trial in the Western Cape High Court, but that hasn’t stopped their henchmen from wreaking havoc. Carte Blanche examines the underbelly of the Western Cape’s deadly extortion rackets.

Full Story (age restricted)

Chernobyl in a Time of War

In March 2022, Russia did the unthinkable: Eight years after the first Russian invasion of Ukraine in 2014, thousands of Russian troops crossed the border as Vladimir Putin carried out his long-standing threat to invade the country again. Chernobyl, home to the world’s most notorious nuclear power station, was captured and hundreds of people were trapped. Then Russian troops occupying the area began to withdraw. Now, more than two years since the war began, Carte Blanche goes inside the exclusion zone to examine why keeping Chernobyl out of Russian hands was critical to Ukraine’s fightback.

Full Story

[FROM THE ARCHIVES] Lessons from Chernobyl

In the grip of earth’s sixth mass extinction animals and insects are dying out at rates up to 1000 times the natural average. The destruction of a hundred species a year is driven by humans. Globally scientists are worried. Carte Blanche journeys to the nuclear exclusion zone around the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Ukraine – the heart of what has been considered the most radioactive and chemically toxic hotspot in the world, where wildlife was all but wiped out 30 years ago. But in spite of life-threatening ionising radiation, Chernobyl’s wildlife is thriving. We explore the lessons to be learned when man is removed from the equation.

Full Story

Six Years of Silence

It was a 40th birthday celebration that should’ve ended in high spirits. But without warning, career woman and mom of three young children, Kim Ballantine, lost her voice. Spasmodic dysphonia, a rare and serious neurological condition, caused her vocal cords to spasm, leaving her unable to breathe and, on several occasions, at death’s door. Meals were puréed and sipped through a straw but often triggered life-threatening spasms of Kim’s vocal cords. Doctors couldn’t find the cause of her condition, and she was told she would never speak again. And then, just as the family was learning to adapt to a new normal, Kim was diagnosed with breast cancer. In this remarkable story of loss and hope, love and faith, we speak to a family that stuck together through the tough times, inspiring us never to give up – no matter how dire the situation may appear.

Full Story

JOIN THE #CARTEBLANCHE CONVERSATION

Please note: Carte Blanche line-ups are subject to change. Stories can be viewed at www.carteblanche.co.za