This conference brings together three sectors - tourism, economic development and private business - and from that connection, Jackie Moore, Visitor and Convention Services Host at Tourism Swift Current, says, "you get amazing ideas, an opportunity to network and listen to all the speakers. They're all part of a jigsaw puzzle piece. They all really do connect together."

People that represent museums, people representing cultural events and event organizers, anybody that would see and want to expand on visitor traffic and see their numbers increase would benefit from attending this conference.

"It's very critical for everyone," she says, "to talk with everyone else and that's the great thing about this, we all realize how interconnected we are."

"It's the fourth annual 49x110 Spring Conference and AGM." Since 49 represents the latitude of the US border and 110 represents the longitude of the Alberta border, Jackie adds, "that's our boundaries, so if you look at that lovely 'L' shape and drew a curve, we're nestled in that little corner and as Tourism Swift Current, we represent the region as well, so it's a great fit for us."

Jackie says the uniqueness of this conference is that we are all in the same geography and all trying to sell ourselves to visitors.

"We have a great rapport with lots of other areas - Leader and Gravelbourg, for example - because they come to our conferences and they know about what we do and what we offer and our events and our culture, they are able to give that information to visitors that are perhaps coming from their area and travelling through our area. It's unique in the fact that we really do all play well together."

For all our Tourism Swift Current members, the AGM starts Wednesday at 3 p.m. when all the trade show booths will be set up.

"Following the AGM, we do then have a social meet and greet, which gives all the conference registration participants a chance to talk to the other registrants. That's when you get the chance to meet the face that you speak to on the phone all the time."

Executive Director of Marketing and Communications for Tourism Saskatchewan, Mary Taylor-Ash, will be the Keynote Speaker at the conference.

"The nice thing about what Mary has done," says Jackie, "if you are familiar with any of the successful marketing campaign that Newfoundland and Labrador put on a few years ago, she oversaw the development of that. Now Tourism Saskatchewan has her and she'll be doing some great information giving about selling Saskatchewan. Lloyd Begley from the Swift Current Museum will be speaking about all the great events and ideas that he has implemented at the museum to see some great visitor traffic there, too. The numbers here are great inside of the museum and that would obviously be of interest to any of our museum attendees. Royce Pettyjohn from Cypress Hills Destination Area, Brenda Peterson from the Grasslands National Park and Ken Dueck from Tourism Saskatchewan will be speaking as well."

The two-day conference is an amazing opportunity for all the different sectors to get together and listen to some great agenda speakers and take away a wealth of information.