Hardcover. Condition: Good. Dust Jacket Condition: Good. Racey Helps (illustrator). First Edition. In violet cloth with black titles to spine and black illustration to front. In an unclipped colour pictorial dust jacket. Coloured, pictorial end papers. 48 pp. with numerous black and white and colour illustrations. Cover has some liquid spill damage. There is some shelf wear to the extremities of the dust jacket with a number of nicks and tears, up to 1". There is a dedication in ink to the half title. There is light foxing throughout the book. No.

Paper Back. Condition: Near Fine. Helps , Racey (illustrator). 1st Edition. Near Fine P/b.24pp.185x125mm. A real charm of a book. Animal tales for the younger child. Podge the guinea-pig just loved his food & went in search for more , making friends on his adventures.[ Marmaduke the Mouse / Floppity the rabbit] Full page colour illustrated & centre double-page. Book fine throughout, no inscsp. no annotation, card col.illus.cover. Please see our images of the actual book offered for sale for further details and condition.

Original Cloth. Condition: Good. Helps, Racey (illustrator). First Edition. The book has staining and discolouration to the boards with one three and a half inch by one and a half inch stain to the rear panel. Browning to the page edges with a little staining to the top edges at the front of the book. Light spotting to the title page and there are a few light marks to the pages which are generally otherwise unmarked. Illustrated in colour and black and white by the author. No jacket. First printing. Postage charge will be reduced by £1.50 when the order is processed.

Hardcover. Condition: Good. No Jacket. First Edition. Hardback: full page colour illustrations by the author, colour pictorial covers are slightly rubbed on the edges, corners are bumped and worn, spine covering is missing, back cover is a bit dusty and is cracked, flyleaves darkened, name on the front flyleaf, inscription on the dedication page, internal foxing and a few other marks, lower page edges are finger creased, still g. obl 8vo, 47pp.

Hardcover. Condition: Good. No Jacket. First Edition. Hardback: full page colour illustrations by the author, no dj, colour pictorial covers are slightly rubbed on the edges, corners are bumped and worn, spine tips are rubbed and pulled and have been re-glued, back cover is a bit dusty and is cracked, name on the front flyleaf, inscription on the dedication page, internal foxing and a few other marks, lower page edges are finger creased, still g. obl 8vo, 47pp.

Soft cover. Condition: Near Fine +. Dust Jacket Condition: No Jacket ( as Issued ). Helps, Racey (illustrator). 1st Edition. With verses by Celia Barlow. A UK first edition, first impression. Small softcover booklet. The book is fresh, bright and tight. The front and back covers are unfaded, clean and unblemished. The pages are clean and bright. The closed page edges are unmarked. The binding is tight - no cracked hinges. There are no previous ownership inscriptions. A handsome copy. PayPal accepted.

Pinny Takes a Bath' by Racey Helps. First edition published by World Distributors, Manchester and London, 1967. 'Pinny Takes A Bath' by Racey Helps Gorgeous illustrations to contents. Hardback. No dj. Book has yellow cloth boards. Boards are strong with a good spine but do bear marks to front and back. Bright colour illustrated endpapers and colour illustrations throughout. No writing or markings inside but there are some stains for fore-edge of text block. Overall a charming little book with gorgeous illustrations. 'Pinney Takes a Bath' by Racey Helps. Author wrote books for children, designed greetings cards, wrapping paper and son on. Not exlib etc and packed and sent with care.

Hardcover. Condition: Very Good. Dust Jacket Condition: Good. 1st Edition. First edition hardback in Very Good condition with a Good clipped jacket. Red cloth boards, bumped, clean, 48 pages, illustrated end papers have light foxing and marks, otherwise clean, binding tight. s, binding tight and almost square. Jacket has edge wear, chips to the head and toe of the spine with a 5 cm tear radiating across the cover from its tow, a few closed edge tears, minor tanning and marks, now protected in a removable clear plastic sleeve. Free standard airmail worldwide.