Trip Overview

Frank Lloyd Wright was born June 8, 1867, in the small, rural community of Richland Center, Wisconsin. At age 15, he entered the University of Wisconsin-Madison to study engineering, as they did not have any courses in architecture. Wright left Madison in 1887 to work as a draftsman in Chicago and later became chief assistant to architect Louis Sullivan.

Wright's Wisconsin roots helped define him as an architect and heavily influenced his work. We'll get an up-close look at those roots during this two-day trip to Madison, where we'll see the Wright-designed Monona Terrace and other significant Wright sites, and Spring Green, home of Wright's stunning Taliesin estate.

Itinerary

Day 1

In the morning, we will gather at CAF, enjoy a continental breakfast and depart on a motor coach to Madison. Upon arrival, we will drop off our bags at the Hilton Madison Monona Terrace hotel and take a brief break to stretch our legs.

In the afternoon, we will embark on a bus tour of Madison to visit some of Frank Lloyd Wright’s childhood sites and works from different eras of his career, including Prairie and Usonian architecture. We will also go on an interior tour of the First Unitarian Meeting House.

We will return to the hotel for a brief talk and an opportunity to explore Monona Terrace, a gathering place designed by Wright along the shore of Lake Monona. After your self-guided tour you can make your way back to the hotel to check-in and rest before dinner.

Meals included: Continental breakfast, lunch and dinner

Day 2

We are off to Spring Green to see Taliesin, Frank Lloyd Wright's masterpiece home and workshop. Declared a National Historic Landmark in 1976, one Pulitzer Prize-winning architecture critic deemed it the "greatest single building in America." The 37,000-square-foot complex includes orchards, vineyards, berry patches and a working farm, as well as sweeping views of the valley. We'll view the grounds and the interior living space, which includes apartments, an office and a drafting studio.

After our extensive estate tour, we will have lunch at the Taliesin Visitor Center and visit the gift shop, before departing for Chicago.

Meals included: Breakfast and lunch

Notes:

Continental breakfast will be served at CAF starting at 8:15am on June 8. Please arrive early to check-in, eat and be ready to depart at 9am.

The Taliesin Estate Tour is a four-hour, 1.5 mile hike from one end of the estate to the other. There are some hills and uneven terrain and the tour does not offer any time to sit down. Please bring comfortable walking shoes.

Cost includes round-trip transportation to Madison and Spring Green, hotel accommodations, admission fees for tours, transportation to and from tour sites while in Madison, one continental breakfast, breakfast at the hotel, two lunches and one dinner.

Cancellation and Refund Policy (to be made in writing)

In the unfortunate event that you have to cancel your participation in the Madison/Spring Green travel program, the following terms will apply: Reservations cancelled up to and including 70 days prior to departure will incur a $50 administrative fee. Later cancellations will be subject to the following charges: 40 to 69 days before scheduled departure 50% of tour cost; 7 to 39 days prior to departure the total cost of the trip, less any recoverable sums from independent providers or services, accommodations and the like; 6 days or less, including no-shows, or early return from the trip will result in forfeiture of 100% of the trip cost.