Mons is a town in Belgium and the capital of the Province of Hainaut. It is the fourth largest city of the Walloon part of Belgium where French is spoken. The town's name takes its roots from the Latin word mons which means mountain. In 2015, the city becomes the European Capital of Culture for the calendar year.

In 2007, 91,196 people lived there.

It is at 50° 27 North, 03° 56 East.

People born in Mons

Gilles Binchois, composer (15th century, birth in Mons is uncertain)

Orlande de Lassus, composer (16th century)

Guido de Bres, theologian (1522 to 31 May 1567)

Giuseppe Grisoni, painter and sculptor (17th century)

François-Joseph Fétis, musicologist, composer, critic, and teacher (18th century)

François-Philippe de Haussy, first governor of the National Bank of Belgium (18th century)

Paul Émile de Puydt, botanist, economist, and writer (19th century)

Émile Motte, painter (19th century)

Twin cities

France: Briare

France: Thoissey

France: Vannes

United Kingdom: Sefton

China: Changsha

United States: Little Rock, Arkansas

Images for kids

The Saint Waltrude Collegiate Church and the belfry.

Map of Mons in the sixteenth century. Made by Lodovico Guicciardini.

Mons fusillade on 17 April 1893

Canadians entering Mons in 1918 (source: Archives of Ontario)

The town hall

Le jardin du maïeur.

The belfry

The site of the former water machine.

The main pavillon of the Waux-Hall.

Le noisetier de Byzance remarquable du parc.

La Parfaite Union

Le Carré des Arts

Le Rouge-Puits, at the corner of the rue de la Coupe and the rue de la Chaussée.

Valenciennois tower

Francois-Joseph Fetis

The main square.

The house called Blan Levrie.

The former St. George's Chapel.

The house called de la Toison d’Or.

The old hotel in the circle.

View of the beginning of the street Nimy and the Church of St. Elizabeth

The gardens of the old castle and the romanesque St.Calixte chapel.

Rue de la Tour Auberon - faience street sign

Saint-Waudru Collegiate Church

Statue of Saint-Bartholemy in the choir of the Sainte-Waudru Collegiate Church (sculpture by Jacques Du Brœucq)

Bas-relief on the western wall in the Sainte-Waudru Collegiate Church

The Car d'Or (Golden Carriage) shown in the collegiate church

See also