Disney Branded Television announced today that Danny Glover will play Santa Claus in its forthcoming original movie, The Naughty Nine. The teaser for the project, which will be released on the Disney Channel annd Disney+, and the first photo of Glover in character were also released. See below for those.

In “The Naughty Nine,” mischievous fifth grader Andy (Winslow Fegley) finds himself without a present from Santa on Christmas morning. Realizing he must have landed on the “naughty list” and feeling unfairly maligned, Andy pulls together a team of eight other naughty listers to help him execute an elaborate heist in Santa’s Village at the North Pole to get the presents they feel they deserve. Along the way, the group comes to realize that the very best way off the naughty list is to redirect their unique talents for good ― instead of mischief.

More from Deadline

Pete Kozachik Dies: Oscar-Nominated ‘Nightmare Before Christmas’ Visual Effects Artist Was 72

‘Diary Of A Wimpy Kid Christmas: Cabin Fever’ Sets Release Date On Disney+

Rock And Roll Hall of Fame Ceremony Moves From HBO To Disney+

The movie’s ensemble includes Fegley (8-Bit Christmas) as Andy; Camila Rodriguez as Dulce, Andy’s best friend and archery expert; Anthony Joo (New Amsterdam) as North Pole conspiracy theorist Lewis; Imogen Cohen (The Fairly Oddparents) as daredevil getaway driver Ha-Yoon; Clara Stack (Hawkeye) as animal whisperer Rose; Deric McCabe (A Wrinkle in Time) as master-of-disguise Jon Anthony; Ayden Elijah as adorable charmer Albert; and Madilyn Kellam (Afterwalker) as Andy’s older sister, Laurel, a skilled gymnast seeking to regain her confidence. Derek Theler (Baby Daddy) is Bruno, a disgruntled cargo pilot who claims to have seen Santa aloft in his sleigh.

Best known for his role in the blockbuster Lethal Weapon franchise, Glover has starred in an array projects, including the critically-acclaimed Dreamgirls and disaster pic 2012 for director Roland Emmerich. In 2022, Glover was honored by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences with the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Honorary Academy Award for his decades-long advocacy for justice and human rights.

Alberto Belli (House of Flowers) directed The Naughty Nine, and Suzanne Todd (Noelle) is an executive producer. The Naughty Nine was written by Jed Elinoff and Scott Thomas (Raven’s Home), who also serve as executive producers.

The Naughty Nine will debut November 22 at 8 p.m. ET on the Disney Channel and Thanksgiving Day on Disney+.

Best of Deadline

2023-24 Awards Season Calendar - Dates For Oscars, Emmys, Grammys, Major Film Festivals, Guilds & More

2023 FIFA Women's World Cup: U.S. National Soccer Team Photo Gallery

Alan Arkin: Photos From His Award-Winning Work On Stage, On TV And In Film

Sign up for Deadline's Newsletter. For the latest news, follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.