Jamshid Hashempour

Jamshid Hashempour is an actor who was born in 1944 in Tehran, Iran. He started his career in cinema and starred in “Jahanam-e Sefid” directed by Samuel Khakchian in 1968. He has won the Crystal Simorgh of Best Supporting Actor for “Axing” directed by Behrouz Shoaibi. From his notable activities, “Hush! Girls Don't Scream” by Pouran Derakhshandeh, “Tardid” by Varuzh Karim-Masihi, “Untaken Paths” by Tahmineh Milani and “Swan Song” directed by Saeed Asadi can be named.

Soroush Sehhat

Soroush Sehhat (Persian: سروش صحت‎) is an actor, writer, and director who was born in 1965 in Isfahan, Iran. He started his career in television and starred as a writer and actor in “Corpus of 77” by Mehran Modiri. He has won the Crystal Simorgh of Best Directing for “Dance with me!” as a writer and director from Fajr Film Festival. His most notable activities in series are “Zire Asemane Shahr” by Mehran Ghafourian, “Barareh Nights” by Mehran Modiri and directing “Sakhteman-e Pezeshkan” and in movies are “Murphy's Law” by Rambod Javan, “Saint Petersburg” by Behrouz Afkhami and “50 Kilo Albaloo” directed by Mani Haghighi.

Bijan Banafshekhah

Bijan Banafshekhah (born on March 9, 1973) is an Iranian actor. During his career, he has acted in comedy series such as these few people, without description, Man of Many Many Faces, bitter coffee, doctor's building, Pejman, bachelors, rented house and long way. Reza Banafshekhah is his father and Mahmoud Banafshekhah is his uncle

Hamed Behdad

Hamed Behdad is an actor of cinema, theater, and television who was born in 1973 in Mashhad, Iran. His first time in front of the camera was for "Akhar-e Bazi" by Houmayoon Asadian movie which he got nominated for Best First Role Actor in Fajr Film Festival. He has also performed in works such as Dariush Mehrjui's "Good to Be Back", "At the End of 8th Street" by Alireza Amini, "Saadat Abad" by Maziar Miri and "Crime" directed by Masoud Kimayee. He has also featured in movies such as "Golden Tooth" by Davood Mir Bagheri, "My Sky" by Mohammad Reza Ahanj and "The Last Invitation" by Hossein Soheilizadeh.