Kristin Maldonado - singer from the hit a cappella group Pentatonix - makes her Broadway debut tonight when she assumes the role of Lauren and joins Scissor Sisters frontman Jake Shears and the rest of the cast of the Tony Award-winning musical Kinky Boots at the Al Hirschfeld Theatre. She will remain in the production through to April 8, 2018. Delaney Westfall played her final performance in the show on February 1.

Ms. Maldonado is best known as a member of the three-time Grammy Award-winning a cappella group Pentatonix, with a total of five studio albums released to date, and even a Daytime Emmy Award nomination under their belt. She previously commented: "Being on Broadway has been my ultimate bucket list goal since I was eight years old, so I'm so excited to join such an incredible cast to share this special story!!!"

The principal cast of Kinky Boots currently includes J. Harrison Ghee (as Lola), Jake Shears (as Charlie Price until April 1), Kirstin Maldonado (as Lauren), Caroline Bowman (as Nicola), Daniel Stewart Sherman (as Don), and Marcus Neville (as George).

Kinky Boots officially opened at the Al Hirschfeld Theatre on April 4, 2013, following previews from March 3.

Based on the 2005 British comedy movie of the same name by Geoff Deane and Tim Firth, the musical features a book by Tony Award winner Harvey Fierstein, with music and lyrics by Grammy & Tony Award-winning artist Cyndi Lauper and is directed and choreographed by Tony Award winner Jerry Mitchell.

Synopsis: "Charlie Price is forced to step in and save his family's shoe factory in Northern England following the sudden death of his father. Help comes from the unlikeliest angel, a fabulous drag performer named Lola. Together, this improbable duo revitalizes the failing business, while stepping out from their fathers' shadows and transforming an entire community through the power of acceptance."

The creative team behind Kinky Boots features scenic design by David Rockwell, costume design by Gregg Barnes, lighting design by Kenneth Posner and sound design by John Shivers.

The production was nominated for a total of 13 Tony Awards in 2013, of which it won six: "Best Musical," "Best Performance by an Actor in a Leading Role in a Musical" (for Billy Porter), "Best Original Score" (for Cyndi Lauper), "Best Choreography" (for Jerry Mitchell), "Best Orchestrations" (for Stephen Oremus), and "Best Sound Design" (for John Shivers).

Kinky Boots is produced on Broadway by Daryl Roth and Hal Luftig.

Kinky Boots Tickets are available now for performances through to January 13, 2019.