Welcome to the website of Dr. Yvonne (Bonnie) Maldonado's Pediatric Infectious Disease Research Group within the Department of Pediatrics, Division of Infectious Diseases at the Stanford University School of Medicine.

We are involved in a variety local and international epidemiology and prevention activities focusing on HIV/AIDS, polio, COVID-19, and vaccines.

Bonnie Maldonado, MD, a professor of pediatrics and of epidemiology and population health, senior associate dean of faculty development and diversity, and the Taube Professor in Global Health and Infectious Diseases, was elected for her contributions in the epidemiology and control of pediatric infectious diseases, including polio and measles elimination from the Americas, prevention of maternal-infant HIV transmission, and the national COVID-19 pandemic response.

"Raw milk, along with other raw dairy products like unpasteurized ice creams, yogurts and cheeses, can harbor bacteria that cause common food-borne illnesses — such as salmonella, listeria, campylobacter and E. coli. Germs may linger on a cow’s udders or in the dirt around them, or on the hands of people who milk them, which can then contaminate the milk, said Dr. Yvonne Maldonado, a professor of pediatrics, infectious diseases and epidemiology at Stanford Medicine."

"No link between DDT, polio

Dr. Yvonne Maldonado, a Stanford University professor who studies global health, infectious diseases and epidemiology, said the notion that polio could be caused by DDT is wrong, flying in the face of more than a century of science and evidence."

On December 5, 2022, as part of the Stanford Center for Innovation in Global Health (CIGH) Faculty in Focus Series, Dr. Yvonne (Bonnie) Maldonado shared her career journey in medicine, infectious diseases, public health, and global health while discussing the COVID-19 and mPox pandemics.

The American Pediatric Society (APS) is pleased to announce Yvonne (Bonnie) Maldonado, MD, as the 2023 APS John Howland Award recipient, the highest honor bestowed by the APS. The prestigious award signifies the society’s recognition of Dr. Maldonado for her significant contributions to advancing child health and the profession of pediatrics.