NEW YORK | ONTARIO | January 7, 2020 – Dialogic Group Inc., a communications technology leader in media processing software, announced that it has been acquired by Enghouse Systems Limited from Novacap. The acquisition strengthens the position of Enghouse in the enterprise video and unified communications market segment by adding rich multi-media processing applications and capabilities. Drake Star Partners acted as the exclusive financial advisor to Dialogic.

Dialogic is an industry leader in media processing software, with a highly scalable solution that supports real-time video conferencing and collaboration applications across all devices. Dialogic’s infrastructure products offer a best-in-class Session Border Controller and several software-based network solutions to communication service providers. This combination enables the transformation from legacy TDM (time division multiplexing) to next-generation network platforms.

James Turino, Managing Partner of Drake Star Partners, said: “Under Novacap ownership, Dialogic reinforced its position as a leading supplier of real time cloud communications software for service provider and enterprise markets. As such, Dialogic represents an excellent strategic fit across the Enghouse enterprise video, unified communications and Networks businesses. It was a pleasure to work with the Dialogic and Novacap teams on this transaction.”

Drake Star Partners Team: Gregory Bedrosian, James Turino, Alex Bader

Inquiries:

For further inquiries, please contact

James Turino

Managing Partner:

James.Turino@drakestar.com | +1 212 508 7108

About Dialogic

Dialogic is a leading cloud-optimized solutions provider for real-time communications media, applications, and infrastructure to service providers, enterprises, and developers around the globe. Based in Parsippany, NJ with offices worldwide, Dialogic works with 48 of the world’s top 50 mobile operators, and nearly 1,000 application developers build and deploy on agile networks. Learn more about how Dialogic is enabling agility via Twitter @Dialogic, or by visiting www.dialogic.com and the Dialogic Blog for the latest industry news, trends and advice. Dialogic and BorderNet are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Dialogic Corporation or a subsidiary thereof (“Dialogic”). Other trademarks mentioned and/or marked herein belong to their respective owners.

About Enghouse Systems Limited

Enghouse Systems Limited is a leading global provider of enterprise software solutions serving a variety of vertical markets. Its strategy is to build a more diverse enterprise software company through strategic acquisitions and managed growth within its business sectors: Contact Center, Networks (OSS/BSS), and Transportation/Public Safety. Enghouse shares are listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX: ENGH).

For more information, please visit www.enghouse.com

About Drake Star

Drake Star is an award-winning global tech investment bank that has completed over 400 transactions since 2003. Drake Star team of over 125 senior professionals across offices in New York, London, Paris, Munich, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Berlin, Geneva, Dubai*, and Singapore* focuses on mergers & acquisitions and corporate finance services worldwide in Consumer & Retail Technology, Digital Media, FinTech, Mobility & Sustainability, Software/SaaS, Digital Services, and Industrial Tech sectors.

www.drakestar.com

*Partner Offices