Friday, March 19, 2010

Enabling Technology Pioneer Recognized for Innovation in the Technologies & Solutions Category

Parsippany, New Jersey - March 19, 2010 - Dialogic Corporation ("Dialogic"), Parsippany, New Jersey - March 19, 2010 - Dialogic Corporation ("Dialogic"),Parsippany, New Jersey - March 19, 2010 - Dialogic Corporation ("Dialogic"), a global provider of world-class products and technologies for media and signal processing, today announced that it has received a 2010 Hot Companies award in the Technologies & Solutions category from Network Products Guide. The 2010 Hot Companies winners were announced yesterday at the Technosium 2010 dinner in San Francisco.

The winners were selected from an elite group of finalists consisting of vendors from around the world in all areas of information technology such as security, wireless, storage, networking, software and communications. Winners were determined based on the "4Ps" selection criteria-products, people, performance, and potential. The Hot Companies 2010 evaluation process also assessed candidates for entrepreneurial spirit, seasoned executives with relevant experience, clear understanding of its market segment, products and solutions that are positioned to take advantage of emerging market opportunities, well developed revenue-growth models and clearly planned expansion strategies.

Dialogic is a leading provider of enabling technology for mobile, video, and IP applications, designed to empower companies to create innovative solutions for communications networks worldwide. Dialogic's world-class technology, coupled with the power of its open systems approach to product development, has made Dialogic a catalyst for innovation for its customers and partners as they develop revolutionary products such as mobile video applications, HD voice solutions, mobile value-added services, mobile interactive technologies, voice/video conferencing, web 2.0 applications and location-based services.

"As a pioneer in enabling technology for next-generation communications applications, Dialogic has continued to grow along with the network, and we are proud to receive the 2010 Hot Companies Award in recognition of our unwavering commitment to innovation," said Jim Machi, Dialogic's senior vice president of marketing. "As the networks of today continue to evolve to incorporate exciting technologies such as HD voice and mobile video, Dialogic will be the media engine powering many of the most innovative services and applications in the world."

About Network Products Guide Awards

As industry's leading technology research and advisory publication, Network Products Guide plays a vital role in keeping decision makers and end-users informed of the choices they can make in all areas of information technology. You will discover a wealth of information and tools in this guide including the best products and services, roadmaps, industry directions, technology advancements and independent product evaluations that facilitate in making the most pertinent technology decisions impacting business and personal goals. The guide follows conscientious research methodologies developed and enhanced by industry experts. To learn more, visit www.networkproductsguide.com

About Dialogic Corporation

Dialogic Corporation ("Dialogic") is a leading provider of world-class, innovative technologies based on open standards that enable innovative mobile, video, IP, and TDM solutions for Network Service Providers and Enterprise Communication Networks. Dialogic's customers and partners rely on its leading-edge, flexible components to rapidly deploy value-added solutions around the world.

Headquartered in Montreal, Canada, Dialogic and its subsidiaries have over twenty offices worldwide, providing local presence, knowledge and support to serve its customers around the globe. Dialogic's research and development centers are located in Parsippany, New Jersey; Getzville, New York; Needham, Massachusetts; Hyannis, Massachusetts; Salem, New Hampshire; Chicago, Illinois; Fordingbridge, England; and Renningen, Germany as well as Montreal.

Information about Dialogic is available at http://www.dialogic.com/. Also, join our social networking community, the Dialogic Exchange Network (DEN), at www.dialogic.com/den or visit our Facebook, Twitter and YouTube pages for additional Dialogic news and updates.

Dialogic is a registered trademark of Dialogic Corporation. Other trademarks mentioned and/or marked herein belong to their respective owners. Dialogic and its subsidiaries encourage all users of their products to procure all necessary intellectual property licenses required to implement their concepts or applications, which licenses may vary from country to country.

Contact:

Kristen Perry

Dialogic

Kristen.perry@dialogic.com

973-967-6665