POLITICS

Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane believes that the billions invested by Transnet into the province’s three ports are bearing fruit as the first 30 000 metric tons of manganese sailed out of the East London port on Tuesday.

In the past five years, Transnet Port Terminals invested R9.1 billion in infrastructure development projects in the ports of Ngqura, East London, and Gqeberha's port. The investment into the East London port will also help Mercedes-Benz cater for growth and increased exports.

Speaking at the event to signify the first manganese vessel sailing out of the East London port, Mabuyane said: "We recognise the significance of rail and freight in forging an interconnected future both locally and on the global stage. We have been vocal about the need for Transnet to significantly invest in the rail and port infrastructure of our province for some time because an adequate logistic system that includes road, rail and ports is the lifeblood of any nation."

READ: Transnet CEO Derby and CFO Dlamini quit

Yesterday, the province received its first export manganese call when vessel MV BBG Leader docked to load 30 000 metric tons at the East London Multipurpose Terminal.

One of South Africa’s top-five mining companies that export manganese, Tshipi é Ntle Manganese Mining, owned by politician-cum businessman Saki Macozoma, is the first company to utilise the East London Multipurpose Terminal.

Mabuyane said the massive investment in provincial ports and rail infrastructure is being positioned to support critical provincial economic sectors, such as automotive, manufacturing, agriculture and tourism.

He stated:

We thank the Transnet leadership for making the investments they are making in our infrastructure in line with the developmental mandate of the institution. We expect more investments to revitalise our rail infrastructure, its maintenance, and its protection against vandalism.

Mabuyane added: “The Eastern Cape’s commercial ports are pivotal in our drive towards economic dynamism. These ports, being part of Transnet, specialise in the mineral bulk sector for Manganese. Moreover, the versatility of East London is noteworthy, offering break bulk service for containerised cargo of motor vehicles and the agricultural bulk service for the export of staples like wheat, soya beans and maize.”

He said the ports were not just docking stations, but engines of economic growth, and their impact rippled throughout the province, creating opportunities, fostering innovation and signalling South Africa's competitiveness to the world.

“With the expansion of deep port facilities at the EL Port, we aren’t just increasing capacity, we're opening doors for related industries, enhancing our motor industry exports and bolstering local manufacturing.”

Mabuyane added:

As we mark these achievements, we see an Eastern Cape that is resilient, innovative and globally connected. Each manganese shipment, each vehicle exported and every ton of grain of maize that leaves our shores symbolise our capabilities. This is a celebration of unity, vision and shared prosperity. The future is promising and a testament to our collective spirit.

Mabuyane said the port of East London, together with the Port Elizabeth port, stands as a testament to the provincial government’s ambitions in the mineral bulk sector, particularly for manganese.

“Together, we are stronger, more agile, and better equipped to navigate the complex landscape of global trade and logistics. As we move forward, our emphasis remains on sustainability. We aren’t just building for today but for future generations. We must ensure that as we grow, we do so responsibly, keeping the well-being of our environment and people at the forefront.”

Transnet spokesperson Ayanda Shezi said in preparations of the first shipment, vessel MV BB, Transnet delivered 16 manganese trains to the terminal since July this year. Shezi said Transnet planned to fulfil 150 000 metric tons in the current financial year ending in March 2024.

She added:

The tonnage amounts to one vessel loading up to 40 000 metric tons of manganese per month, which will be via a skip operation that makes use of the ship’s gear. Transnet is also exploring ramping up East London volumes to 500 000 metric tons from the 2024/2025 financial year

She said as South Africa continued to increase its manganese exports each year, the need to create export capacity was in line with Transnet’s segmentation strategies prioritising seven commodities, among them manganese.

READ: Critical minerals: Mantashe says Africa must create its own way

“Plans are under way to establish a dedicated manganese facility in Ngqura long-term with a capacity of 16 million tons. Currently, Transnet rails export manganese from mines in the Northern Cape to the Port Elizabeth Bulk Terminal, the Saldanha Multipurpose Terminal and now the East London Terminal. It was important for Transnet to enable industry and unlock demand; hence, the varying projects aimed at responding to industry requests,” she said.

Tshipi é Ntle chief executive officer Ezekiel Lotlhare said:

We pride ourselves on being part of this historic and significant milestone. Leveraging the capabilities of Transnet and Tshipi presents an opportunity to enhance manganese logistics operations, ensuring more efficient and environmentally responsible transportation of manganese from South Africa to other countries, such as China and India, among others.

Lotlhare added that the partnership signified a new partnership era in the industry.

“By utilising Tshipi’s assets in conjunction with Transnet’s rail assets, infrastructure and the Multipurpose Terminal in East London, we are not only enhancing the efficiency of our operations but also reducing our environmental footprint and negative social impacts associated with road transport,” he concluded.

South Africa hosts about 75% of the world’s identified manganese resources, a commodity that has become a key additive in manufacturing steel products because it offers superior quality.

Mined in the country’s largest province, the Northern Cape, manganese is without a substitute and rather economical with China, accounting for over 50% of global consumption followed by India, Japan, Ukraine and South Korea, respectively – five of the world’s top 10 importers. The East London milestone happens at a time when Transnet is in deep trouble, with Its infrastructure failing, revenue and volumes falling, and skilled personnel having left the company.