ROOKIE DRIVER, ROOKIE TEAM, VETERAN CREW TO MAKE ON-TRACK DEBUT AS AMERICAN REVOLUTION RACING

Rookie Driver Cole Carter and American Revolution Racing Set to Make On- Track Debut in Menards Infiniti Pro Series Futaba Freedom 100

INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. (May 25, 2005) - Rookie driver Cole Carter along with his veteran crew have formed a new team to compete in Menards Infiniti Pro Series competition, and they're calling this grassroots effort American Revolution Racing (ARR). Completing a successful rookie test on Friday, May 20, Carter will pilot the #77 Dallara/Infiniti/Firestone in his and ARR's debut race, the Futaba Freedom 100, held at the most famed race track in the world; the Indianapolis Motor Speedway.

But make no mistake, Carter and his crew are no strangers to the historic 2.5-mile oval nor are they inexperienced when it comes to open-wheel competition. Carter's bloodlines alone give credibility to his role as driver, not to mention his accolades from recent years of moving up the USAC ranks. The son of Duane "Pancho" Carter, who made 17 Indianapolis 500 starts and held the pole position in 1985, as well as the grandson of Duane Carter, Sr. who made 11 Indianapolis 500 starts, Cole Carter was destined from birth to turn laps at Indy.

Despite such familiarity with Indianapolis, Carter has not let that alter the significance of the Speedway and what it could mean for his career. "Just being on the track, it's got such a history especially with my whole family," Carter said. "I'll become the 4th person in my family to race at the track and another 3rd generation driver in the MIPS. I'm just thankful for the opportunity and anxious to get out there."

And "get out there" Carter will, as he hopes to make this race his first steps towards being the first in his family to have his likeness upon the Borg Warner Trophy. Of course, Carter has not left it to chance to get this far in his career. He has consistently exhibited the racing talent that is characteristic of the Carter bloodline and proven his place amongst his fellow competitors. Notching numerous top five finishes, fast times and heat race victories, Carter built an impressive résumé on a limited budget driving a USAC midget.

Carter's time spent on-track not only increased his honors, but his maturity as a driver. His focus led him to a fourth place finish in the 2004 USAC National midget standings, even after sitting out three races.

Plenty of USAC seat time is something Carter plans on using to his benefit. He said, "I think anytime you can race, it helps you. Most drivers will tell you that it doesn't matter what car you are in, experience is a great help. By doing the various USAC ranks, they all teach you different things about driving a racecar which I can apply to the Menards Infiniti Pro Series car."

Carter has much more than his own USAC experience to apply towards getting behind the wheel of the #77 Dallara/Infiniti/Firestone as his crew has a vast array of experience in IndyCar and open wheel racing. The catalyst of the group is John Jones, a mechanic from Arizona who recently assisted Carter this past winter at a USAC event. The pair hit it off and the dream for American Revolution Racing was born.

"I was impressed with Cole's maturity and ability to handle a racecar," Jones said. "After working with him and seeing his potential, I knew I had to find a way to help Cole make his way to IndyCars."

In a matter of months, a dream became a reality and ARR began to take shape with the additions of Darrell Soppe, Pancho Carter, and Bryan Fisher to the lineup. Jones and his fellow team principals certainly possess the credentials for success in motorsports competition.

Together they bolster ARR with more than 90 years of combined experience that collectively includes stints in Indy Racing League IndyCar Series, Menards Infiniti Pro Series, Formula Atlantic, Formula Ford 2000, USAC, and Star Mazda Series competition. Additional support for ARR comes from a devoted cast of industry-experienced veterans composing a dynamic and well- rounded crew.

Now owner of ARR, Jones said, "I am grateful to all of those who have helped us get this far and for making this dream a reality. It was a total grassroots effort and everyone involved has played a significant role. I'd like to especially thank the Carter family, Darrell, Bryan, the Menards Infiniti Pro Series and Indy Racing League for helping ARR take the green flag. However, we now have to put the novelty of it all aside and prepare a car that's race-ready for Cole. "

Despite being a new team, Carter realizes his crew's wealth of experience and knowledge and appreciates his situation. "I'm really excited about it," Carter commented. "Being able to come into a new series and work with people like John Jones, Darrell Soppe, and Bryan Fisher who all have such extensive experience in the sport is a huge confidence boost. Everyone is excited in the whole package and expects good things."

A new addition this week to the spotter line up for Carter adds even more experience to ARR. Joining Pancho as a spotter will be Indy veteran, Tom Sneva who notched a victory at the 1983 Indianapolis 500, after having been a three-time runner-up, in 1977-78 and 1980. He also held three Indy pole positions, in 1977-78 and 1984, and he nearly won a record third consecutive pole in 1979. Sneva also was fastest qualifier in 1981 but started 25th because he qualified on the second Saturday.

"You couldn't ask for former drivers that know this place better," Carter said of his spotters. "They also are both really laid back people, which make it easy to talk with them and work together."

Perhaps Carter and ARR's biggest obstacle is recent experience in Menards Infiniti Pro Series competition. The team is extremely well rounded when it comes to racing experience in general, but the fact that this is the first race in this series for Carter and ARR is a reason of concern.

However, that doesn't seem to faze Carter. He said, ""The team is really excited about the Futaba Freedom 100. Everyone thinks the test proved that we can be a real contender in this series. Our lack of testing will surely put us behind a little but I know the team will put a great car under me that I can get up to speed quickly."

And so the "revolution" is set to begin with the third running of the Menards Infiniti Pro Series Futaba Freedom 100 on Friday, May 27, 2005 at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. Practice and qualifying are scheduled for Thursday, May 26, while the 100-mile race starts at 1:30 p.m. (EDT) on Miller Lite Carb Day, Friday, May 27.

About Cole Carter: While Cole Carter's first experience behind the wheel of a racing machine was a quarter midget in 1992, it could be argued that his racing career started well before he was born. His grandfather, Duane Carter, Sr., made 11 starts in the Indianapolis 500 and his father, Pancho Carter, made 17 Indianapolis 500 starts and held pole-position in 1985. Since 1992, Carter has consistently exhibited the racing talent of the Carter bloodline and proven his place amongst his fellow competitors. Carter will pilot the #77 Dallara/Infiniti/Firestone for American Revolution Racing in Menards Infiniti Pro Series competition.

About American Revolution Racing: Motorsports veterans John Jones, Darrell Soppe, Pancho Carter, and Bryan Fisher announced a partnership earlier this year to form American Revolution Racing. ARR is dedicated to providing opportunities for rising young American race car drivers to participate in American open-wheel racing by providing a fully-funded race team that allows a driver to be selected based on talent alone, with the ultimate goal of seeing that driver compete in the Indianapolis 500. About Futaba Freedom 100: Held at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, the Menards Infiniti Pro Series Futaba Freedom 100 begins Thursday, May 26 for practice and qualifying. The 100-mile race starts at 1:30 p.m. (EDT) on Miller Lite Carb Day, Friday, May 27.

-www.goarr.com