It’s been a very busy week in the political world with the biggest story being the attempted assassination of former President Donald Trump – here’s what we know. There was a reason that Donald was heard screaming for his SHOES as the secret service carried him away from the podium moments after the shooting. He wears LIFTS in his shoes to appear taller, and vain Donald didn’t want the press to photograph his shoes with the special inserts in them!

Speaking of Donald, as he accepted the Republican nomination for president on Thursday, he wore a bandage over his ear that was grazed by that bullet and now we just heard that he’s scheduled to undergo minor reconstructive plastic surgery to replace the cartilage that was blown away. Donald has turned to a top Beverly Hills plastic surgeon and is planning to have the surgery within the next few weeks. My source says that he could have gotten in earlier, but Donald enjoys the image of himself with the bandage as he feels it makes him appear stoic and macho.

The other big news is the continued backlash against President Joe Biden’s campaign and we just heard this scoop. The biggest Democratic donors were recently informed via a secure conference call that Biden will NOT be the nominee and to expect an announcement before the end of July. This isn’t speculation -it’s a done deal- and the powers that be are currently drafting a graceful way for Biden to bow out.

The Olympics are all over the news since they’re starting on July 27, and my source says that last minute plans are currently underway to get Taylor Swift to perform at either the opening or closing ceremony. Seems that ticket sales to the events haven’t been as great as expected, so they’re hopeful that an appearance by Taylor could somehow change that. She hasn’t signed on yet, as there are a lot of moving parts to navigate, but expect a big announcement if it all works out as the Olympic committee hopes.

Finally, a sad week for celebrity deaths, including Dr. Ruth, Bob Newhart and Shannen Doherty. Speaking of Shannen, her former husband, the handsome Ashley Hamilton just revealed his own cancer diagnosis during a statement he released to the press on her passing. We just heard this though – Ashley is planning to launch a cancer foundation in Shannen’s memory and raise awareness of the disease and hopefully raise funds in the process. He’s leaning on his stepfather, the wealthy but notoriously frugal Rod Stewart to kick things off with a large donation. We will keep you posted if Rod funds the endeavor.

Photo Credit: BACKGRID-USA