Washington basketball coach Bob Bender announced Thursday night that he will stay with the Huskies.

Bender revealed his decision at the team's awards banquet two days after meeting with officials from the University of Texas, including two regents.

In his speech, Bender said loyalty to the players, athletic director Barbara Hedges and others were the main factors in his decision.

It was uncl;ear whether Texas actually offered him the head coaching job but he was considered a top contender.

When Bender said,"To let you know, I am going to be at the University of Washington," applause filled the banquet room.

"This is why it was such a simple decision. Just look at yourself. Look at yourselves and look at the kids tonight who are here to be honored," he said, his voice breaking.

"You look at Barbara Hedges ... who gave me a chance that has been tremendous, to the friends that we've made in this room. You don't leave.

"It isn't money. There isn't a Lear jet in the world that could make this better."

The final remark was a reference to the private plane on which he was flown from Dallas to meet with a Texas booster in Palm Springs, Calif., on Tuesday.

Coming off a surprise trip to the NCAA tournament's round of 16 in his fifth year at Washington, Bender said he informed Texas of his decision earlier Thursday.

Tom Penders, who recently resigned from the Texas job, was making a reported $550,000 a year, about $200,000 more than Bender is getting from Washington.

Upon returning to Seattle on Wednesday, Bender said the Longhorns left him with a favorable impression.

"The first thing you do feel is that you're appreciated," he said.

Meanwhile, Texas received permission Thursday to talk to Clemson's Rick Barnes. In addition to Bender, other candidates mentioned in the Texas search have included Wake Forest's Dave Odom, Utah's Rick Majerus, Oklahoma's Kelvin Sampson and North Carolina assistant Phil Ford.

The Huskies' NCAA tournament appearance this year was their first since 1986, and their victories were the school's first in the tournament since 1984. They upset Xavier 69-68 and beat Richmond 81-66 before losing to Connecticut 75-74 on a last-second shot.

Bender has a 128-129 career record in four years at Illinois State and five at Washington and has brought the Huskies' program from disarray to growing respect. His record at Washington has improved every year - 5-22 in 1994, 10-17 in 1995, 16-12 in 1996, 17-11 in 1997 and 20-10 last season.

© 1998 SportsLine USA, Inc. All rights reserved