A1 Sarara (Bring Me The Sunlight)Written-By – Gilberto Gil, Tracy Mann 3:58

A2 Mas Que Nada Written-By – Jorge Ben 3:49

A3 Some Morning Written-By – Brock Walsh, Ivan Lins 3:45

A4 Nightlife Written-By – Tracy Mann, Tunai 3:37

A5 Cinnamon And Clove (Cravo E Canela) Written-By – Milton Nascimento, Ronaldo Vastos* 3:28

B1 Balafon Written-By – Gilberto Gil, Tracy Mann 3:28

B2 Surrender Written-By – Caetano Djavan Viana*, Tracy Mann 4:20

B3 Keep This Heart Written-By – Caetano Djavan Viana*, Tracy Mann 3:28

B4 Toucan's Dance (Instrumental) Written-By – Dori Caymmi* 3:46

B5 The Island Written-By – Alan & Marilyn Bergman, Ivan Lins, Victor Martins* 3:35

Phonographic Copyright (p) – A&M Records

Copyright (c) – A&M Records

Recorded At – Ocean Way Recording

Mixed At – Smoketree Ranch

Art Direction – Chuck Beeson

Design – Chuck Beeson, Mary Maurer

Engineer [Additional Vocals] – Geoff Gillette (tracks: B1, B3)

Engineer [Assistant Engineers] – Bob Salcedo

Engineer [Overdubs] – Bob Loftus, Dan Garcia

Engineer [Tracks] – Dan Garcia (tracks: B5), Michael O'Reilly (tracks: A2), Rik Pekkonen

Engineer [Vocals] – Bob Loftus (tracks: A4, B1-3), Dan Garcia, Geoff Gillette (tracks: A5), Joey Wolpert(tracks: B5)

Mastered By – Bernie Grundman

Mixed By – Jeremy Smith (2)

Photography By – Karen Filter

Producer – Ish* (tracks: A2), Sergio Mendes*

Released 1989 & issued as CD 5250

"My deepest gratitude and thanks for all the great musicians, singers, writers and engineers that participated on this project.

You are the greatest team on the Planet!

Love you all.

Special thanks to Patrick Clifford and Steve Ralbovsky for your belief and support.

This album is dedicated to my son Gustavo.

Siedah Garrett appears courtesy of Qwest Records."

(Note: This AOTW has been discussed and referenced in other threads elsewhere)

JB

https://forum.amcorner.com/threads/the-underated-arara-album.5503/

This album appears to be available in streaming, but hard copies are out of print at the moment. I was happy to find the CD as detailed in the thread I've linked to above.

ARARA remains a fun listen for me - and I still recall The Weather Channel using "Toucan's Dance" for backing music to its "Local on the 8's" segment.

Hard to believe this one is 30 years old now. Qobuz does have it for streaming and most likely available for purchase as a lossless download as well.

I don't recall ever warming to it--I think the synthesizer overkill turned me off after a few listens. It is very much a product of the late 80s. I feel the same way about Brasil '86 now as a matter of fact--it's not a bad album but as much as I liked it back then, in recent years I can't get through a few tracks before I'm tuning it out.

Sergio was really "all over the map" when this one came out... he'd gone completely away from the "band" concept, among other large changes. That said, this album came off as less disjointed than some of the ones surrounding it for me. THAT said, it's a seriously dated album due to some of the instrumentation and production choices, as are most of his '80s efforts. When I first heard this one, I thought "Wow, this new 'Mas Que Nada' is my new favorite." But it wasn't long before I reverted to thinking the original was the best. After all this time, I have to say my favorite song on it is "Cravo E Canela," with the tasty Gracinha vocals. The opening "Sarara" is a nice song too but it doesn't sound much like a Sergio Mendes tune.

When I first heard this one, I thought "Wow, this new 'Mas Que Nada' is my new favorite." But it wasn't long before I reverted to thinking the original was the best.

Yeah, I found that the "new car smell" on that one faded away rather quickly.

For newer versions, the one from the Rio movie soundtrack is pretty good. It has a nice smooth arrangement to it.

I see it's Availible for download on Amazon for $6 great price and I plan to purchase it come payday later in the week this is one that I didn't know existed until a couple years later and was out of print and it was his Last A&M album of his second tenure there which was significant in my opinion from there he went back to Elektra for Brasiliero