Legendary jazz singer Sarah Vaughan, the ``Divine One' renowned for her unusual range and flowing style peppered with flavors of be-bop and scat, died of lung cancer eight days after her 66th birthday.

Harold Levy, her manager and friend, said she died late Tuesday at her home in the Hidden Hills area of the west San Fernando Valley. She had been ill for nearly a year and was released from Cedars-Sinai Medical Center hours before her death.``Sarah Vaughan was among the most powerful, influential and soulful voices of all time, a perfectionist with an astonishing vocal range and a genius for conveying emotion through her music,' said Quincy Jones, who first worked with Vaughan in 1957 as the arranger on ``Misty.'

Pianist George Shearing, who worked with Vaughan in the late 1940s, said her death was significant for him because she was the first vocalist he performed with after emigrating to the United States from Britain.

``She's going to be very much missed in terms of being the exemplary voice in the pop field. She was the best contralto in pop,' said Shearing. ``She would hold on to great, big long notes without vibrato.'

``Now that she's gone, there's no one to measure great singers with,' said entertainer and jazz aficionado Bill Cosby.

``Sarah Vaughan was a complete vocalist and musician,' Frank Sinatra said. ``She was an instrument and she had an incredible sense of humor. Put those attributes together and we're talking about one of the finest vocalists in the history of pop music.'

In a rare tribute to a celebrity, Mayor Tom Bradley ordered flags at all city buildings lowered to half-staff through Friday. That last happened when Lucille Ball died last April.

Vaughan's style was formed by her early association with be-bop, singing with Billy Eckstine, Charlie Parker and Dizzy Gillespie in the Earl Hines and Eckstine bands in the 1940s.

During that time, with her deep, sultry voice and dramatic colorings, she was known as the most distinguished jazz singer of the '40s.

``Vocally, she was a giant singer,' said Mel Torme. ``Had Sarah decided to go another way she would have been a great legit singer. She could have done opera, for instance.

``She, among very few others I could think of, had a very extemporaneous way of singing. She never sang a song the same.'

Fellow scat-style jazz legend Ella Fitzgerald said she was too overwhelmed to comment.

Her first hit record was ``It's Magic' in 1947.

Vaughan won Esquire's new star award that year and the Down Beat poll as best female jazz vocalist from 1947 through 1952. She won a competitive Grammy for best female vocal jazz performance for ``Gershwin, Live!' in 1982.

Her first husband was trumpeter George Treadwell. She also was married to professional football player Clyde Atkins, Las Vegas restaurateur Marshall Fisher and trumpeter Waymon Reed.

Be the first to know

Get local news delivered to your inbox!

* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.