We didn’t let the weather dampen our spirits as the Obelisk Arena hosted headline performances from Pulp, Paolo Nutini and George Ezra.

Pulp kicked off the weekend with a bang, delivering a slick set jam-packed with fan favourites like ‘Common People’ and ‘Disco 2000’. The band drew in one of the largest crowds of the festival, a night that frontman Jarvis Cocker promised we’d remember for the rest of our lives.

Twelve years after his last Latitude appearance all the way back in 2011, Paolo Nutini returned to the headline slot for a second time. Comprising hits from Sunny Side Up all the way through to last year’s Last Night in the Bittersweet, his set was perfectly smooth and melancholic.

George Ezra closed the festival with a gloriously feel-good set on Sunday night. The folk pop star reeled off hit after hit to get the whole crowd singing along, before ending on an explosion of confetti and fireworks.

The BBC Sounds stage saw performances from Leeds rockers Yard Act, tempestuous trio Young Fathers, and none other than punk legend Siouxsie, who brought the house down on Sunday with a show-stopping set following a ten-year hiatus from live performances.

Comedy Arena headliners Ed Gamble, Bridget Christie and Romesh Ranganathan had the tent packed to the rafters, with audience members rolling in their seats in fits of laughter. We were also treated to performances from Fatt Projects and New Adventures at the Waterfront stage, while Laser Kiwi and Birds of Paradise Theatre performed to thunderous applause in the Theatre Arena.

The Guest Chef returned for Latitude 2023, with celebrity guests including Richard Curtis and Sophie Ellis-Bextor cooking up a storm for guests. The Theatre of Food also had a fantastic programme of discussions and demonstrations featuring plenty of foodie household names.

There was fun for all the family in our Kids’ Area, featuring plenty of fun and games. The festivities continued until the wee hours, with a range of DJ sets and club nights that had us dancing the night away long after the headline sets had finished.