Worksheets /People /Figures /Walther Wilhelm Georg Bothe Facts & Worksheets

Not ready to purchase a subscription? Click to download the free sample version Download sample

Table of Contents

Walther Wilhelm Georg Bothe was a German nuclear physicist who shared the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1954 with Max Born for inventing a new method called “coincidence method” by which he detected subatomic particles, and further applications.

See the fact file below for more information on the Walther Wilhelm Georg Bothe or alternatively, you can download our 24-page Walther Wilhelm Georg Bothe worksheet pack to utilise within the classroom or home environment.

Key Facts & Information

EARLY LIFE AND EDUCATION

Walther Wilhelm Georg Bothe was born on January 8, 1891 in Oranienburg, Germany.

He was born to Fritz Bothe, a merchant, and Charlotte Hartung.

From 1908 to 1912 he studied at the University of Berlin, particularly focusing on physics, mathematics, and chemistry.

In 1914, he earned his doctorate in physics, under the mentorship of physicist Max Planck, for his thesis about the molecular theory of reflection, refraction, dispersion, and extinction.

He continued to study such theory in the years that followed.

CAREER AND CONTRIBUTIONS

In 1913, Bothe began to work as a researcher at the Physikalisch-Technische Reichsanstalt (Reich Physical and Technical Institute) where he stayed until 1930.

During World War I, Bothe served in the German army.

In 1915, he was captured by the Soviets and was held captive in Siberia for a year.

While he was a prisoner of war, he studied the Russian language and continued his scientific research.

In 1920, Bothe returned to Germany and continued his employment at the radioactive laboratory under under Hans Geiger at the Physikalisch-Technische Reichsanstalt (PTR).

In PTR, Bothe and Geiger collaborated on Bothe’s most important discoveries.

In 1924, Bothe published a paper on his invention of the coincidence method, which states his discovery that when a single subatomic particle passes through two Geiger counters, the pulses from each counter are coincident in time.

He further applied this method to his studies on the wave-particle duality of light and the Compton effect.

Bothe was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1954, which he shared with Max Born, for the coincidence method and his further applications of the method.

The results of the coincidence method disproved a statistical interpretation of the Compton effect and established the particle nature of electromagnetic radiation.

Bothe’s coincidence method also made it possible to determine the angular distribution of cosmic rays.

In 1925, while still working at PTR, Bothe became a Privatdozent at the University of Berlin.

A Privatdozent is a teacher or lecturer in a German university that is recognized formally as a teacher but does not receive a salary.

In 1927, Bothe succeeded Geiger as director of the Laboratory for Radioactivity.

In 1929, Bothe applied the coincidence method on cosmic radiation, in collaboration with astronomer Werner Kolhörster and physicist Bruno Rossi.

By passing the cosmic rays through a Geiger counter array, Bothe was able to demonstrate that cosmic rays was composed of gamma rays and high energy particles rather than photons.

Bothe studied cosmic radiation for the rest of his life.

Bothe was also interested in studying the transmutation of elements.

In 1930, he took a full professorship at the University of Giessen.

In 1930, Bothe worked with Herbert Becker and observed a new form of radiation by bombarding beryllium, boron, and lithium with alpha particles from polonium.

The radiation was later identified by Sir James Chadwick as the neutron in 1932.

HEADER

In 1932, he became director of the Physical and Radiological Institute at the University of Heidelberg.

In 1934, he became director of the Physics Institute of the Max Planck Institute for Medical Research at Heidelberg, where he remained until his death in 1957.

In 1938, working with Wolfgang Gentner, Bothe published a paper on the energy dependence of the nuclear photo-effect.

In Heidelberg, Bothe was responsible for the planning and building of the first operational German cyclotron which was completed in 1943.

The cyclotron is a device that can accelerate particles along a spiral path.

During the Second World War, he worked on the German nuclear energy and weapons research.

After the war, Bothe used the German cyclotron to create radioactive isotopes.

Bothe published numerous scientific articles and books in his lifetime.

PERSONAL LIFE

While he was held as a prisoner of war in Russia, Bothe met Barbara Below, who became his wife in 1920.

The couple had two daughters.

Bothe was a skilled pianist who was fond of listening to Johann Sebastian Bach and Ludwig van Beethoven.

He was also an artist, mostly painting using watercolor and oil.

At 66 years old, Walther Wilhelm Georg Bothe died on February 8, 1957 in Heidelberg, Germany.

HONORS AND AWARDS

Bothe was a member of the Academy of Sciences of Göttingen and the Academy of Sciences of Heidelberg.

In 1952, he became a Knight of the Order of Merit for Sciences and the Arts.

In 1953, he received the Max Planck Medal.

Walther Wilhelm Georg Bothe Worksheets

This is a fantastic bundle which includes everything you need to know about Walther Wilhelm Georg Bothe across 24 in-depth pages. These are ready-to-use Walther Wilhelm Georg Bothe worksheets that are perfect for teaching students about Walther Wilhelm Georg Bothe who was a German nuclear physicist who shared the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1954 with Max Born for inventing a new method called “coincidence method” by which he detected subatomic particles, and further applications.

Complete List Of Included Worksheets

Walther Wilhelm Georg Bothe Facts

Who’s Walther?

Bothe-cabulary

Correct Sequence

Honors & Titles

Bothe’s Collaborators

German Physicists

Nobel Winners

Ideas Of Interest

Best Of Bothe’s World

Nuclear News

Link/cite this page

If you reference any of the content on this page on your own website, please use the code below to cite this page as the original source.

Link will appear as Walther Wilhelm Georg Bothe Facts & Worksheets: https://kidskonnect.com - KidsKonnect, May 14, 2021

Use With Any Curriculum

These worksheets have been specifically designed for use with any international curriculum. You can use these worksheets as-is, or edit them using Google Slides to make them more specific to your own student ability levels and curriculum standards.