SVA Theatre

5pm-8pm

Documentary, LGBTQIA+

I'm Your Venus

80 min

A moving and timely documentary following the unsolved murder of Venus Xtravaganza, star of the legendary Paris Is Burning as Venus’ two families — biological and ballroom — come together to seek answers and celebrate her legacy.

View Details

Silas 05:00 PM

Comedy, LGBTQIA+, Narrative

Griffin in Summer

90 min

In this coming-of-age comedy, a fourteen-year-old wannabe playwright (Everett Blunck) becomes enamored with a local handyman (Owen Teague) over the course of summer vacation.

View Details

Silas 08:00 PM

Horror

The Damned

89 min

When a ship sinks near her isolated fishing post, Eva (Odessa Young) must choose: rescue the shipwrecked or survive winter. Guilt ridden, the fishermen believe they are being punished for their choices.

View Details

Beatrice 05:30 PM

Documentary

Bad Actor: A Hollywood Ponzi Scheme

87 min

Wannabe actor Zachary Horwitz was desperate to make it big as a movie star. The only thing stopping him was talent. Bad Actor: A Hollywood Ponzi Scheme is a juicy true story about deception, denial, and the seductive promise of fame and fortune.

View Details

Beatrice 08:30 PM

Village East by Angelika

5pm-8pm

Drama

Checkpoint Zoo

103 min

After the Russian invasion, thousands of animals were trapped behind enemy lines at the zoo in Kharkiv, Ukraine. Running out of food and water while facing constant peril from Russian bombs, a heroic team of zookeepers and volunteers undertake a d...

View Details

Theater 7 05:00 PM

Animation, Comedy, LGBTQIA+, Science Fiction, Narrative

Mars

84 min

In this outrageous animated comedy, a ragtag group of misfits embark on a wild space adventure to Mars, only to discover they've been bamboozled by a billionaire.

View Details

Theater 7 08:00 PM

Drama

Bitterroot

85 min

Reeling from a failed marriage and in need of comfort and a new perspective, a middle aged man takes care of his aging mother within the deceptively tranquil landscape of rural Montana.

View Details

Theater 2 05:15 PM

Documentary, Black & African American Diaspora Stories

Made in Ethiopia

91 min

Made in Ethiopia examines China’s increasing impact on Africa through the story of charismatic businesswoman Motto, who is tasked with expanding the biggest Chinese industrial zone in Ethiopia.

View Details

Theater 2 08:15 PM

Documentary

Rebel Nun

100 min

Rebel Nun follows the story of Catholic nun and leading death penalty abolitionist Sister Helen Prejean, whose story was first captured in the 1995 film Dead Man Walking. Now, almost 30 years later, filmmaker Dominic Sivyer takes a look at six dec...

View Details

Theater 1 05:30 PM

New York, Women, Comedy, Narrative

The French Italian

92 min

A prank on an annoying neighbor (Chloe Cherry) escalates to ridiculous heights in this quietly absurd comedy set in the dog-eat-dog world of New York City apartment politics.

View Details

Theater 1 08:30 PM

Drama, Latinx/Latin American

The Dog Thief

90 min

Martín, an orphan who works as a shoeshine boy, decides to steal the dog of his best client, a lonely tailor he has begun to imagine is his father.

View Details

Theater 3 05:45 PM

Women, Drama, LGBTQIA+, Biography, Narrative

Come Closer

107 min

When her beloved brother dies, Eden's grief takes a dangerous turn as she discovers his secret girlfriend. With stunning visuals and a haunting soundtrack, this poignant drama explores the depths of love, loss and obsession.

View Details

Theater 4 06:00 PM

Documentary, Music

Alien Weaponry: Kua Tupu Te Ara

97 min

Meet Alien Weaponry, a thrash metal band that sings in the Māori language, as they figure out how to navigate the music industry, culture, family, tour, and each other.

View Details

Theater 4 08:45 PM

Disability

The Unknown

68 min

The Unknown, (United States). A masterclass in subversion, Tod Browning’s 1927 silent film classic shocks and awes through Lon Chaney’s towering performance as carnival knife thrower “Alonzo the Armless.” It’s also an early watershed moment for di...

View Details

Theater 6 07:00 PM