It was Saturday and I was trying to find something to do. It is not as if I didn’t have anything to do, because of course I did: homeworks, final projects, etc. But I didn’t feel like doing them and after some time on Netflix, multiple reloads on Instagram just to see the same photos over and over again, some Google IO videos about Material Design (I don’t know how I ended up watching videos about design) and infinite scrolling on Quora, I finally found a life purpose.

A random guy, bothered by the length of Taylor Swift songs decided to analyze a dataset of songs just to see how music duration varies according to the music genre. I regret not saving the link, but it is worth noting that Taylor Swift songs are usually 3:20~4 minutes long.

And how the hell did I find something to do out of that? After some time searching for the same “data analysis” in different areas, I couldn’t find it for movies (or maybe I just didn’t search enough, but whatever). So, why not do it?

After downloading a IMDb database and 30ish minutes of my life, I drew some histograms for nine genres. It is important to note that I disconsidered all the short films and movies with duration longer than 200 minutes. Also, the genres are not mutually exclusive. The x-axis is the length in minutes and the y-axis is the number of movies.

Just some small observations:

Their distributions are quite similar, with the exception of documentaries, whose histogram has two peaks;

There are many short animations and documentaries that are not classified as short films by IMDb;

The average length for action, adventure, comedy, drama, fantasy, horror and romance movies is around 92 minutes, while for animations and documentaries is approximately 74 minutes.

Using another dataset available in the IMDb website, I decided to analyze the correlation between user ratings (y-axis) and the movie duration (x-axis).

Not all movies have ratings, which can explain the lack of points for movies with duration shorter than 40 minutes (movies with such duration are usually not famous). No high correlation can be inferred from the plot, however, it is possible to observe a roughly linear increase in the average rating for movies with duration longer than 125 minutes.

If you read this whole text, you probably feel just like I felt trying to find something to do and I wish you the best of luck in your quest.