Pretoria at a glance

Pretoria lies on the banks of the Apies River and rests at the foot of the majestic Magaliesberg range. Known as the Jacaranda City, Pretoria is famous for its displays of these purple-flowered trees that bloom from October. As the administrative capital, Pretoria is also home to the executive branch of the South African government. A notable landmark is the Union Buildings, the official government seat.

While Pretoria moves at a slower pace than neighbouring Johannesburg, the city is thriving. Lying within the Tshwane municipal district, the area is a hub for arts, culture, culinary experiences, world-class education, and iconic architecture.

Boasting plenty of amenities and a comfortable lifestyle, Pretoria remains a desirable place to settle down in. With properties to meet all budgets, the area has become a draw for both first-time property hunters and those in search of upmarket living. Explore the area and discover the ideal freestanding house, duplex, apartment, or gated development home for you.

Overview of Pretoria's suburbs

As a large city, Pretoria offers several established suburbs to put down roots. It provides residential options in the northern suburbs, the Moot area, West Moot, Pretoria North, Pretoria East, and Pretoria Old East.

Pretoria's northern suburbs include Montana, Montana Park, Montana Gardens, Magalieskruin, Sinoville, Annlin, Doornpoort, and Wonderboom. The main hospital for this area is the Netcare Montana Hospital. Popular schools in the area include Hoërskool Overkruin, Northridge Primary School, and Laerskool Magalieskruin.

The Moot suburbs include Waverley, Villieria, Bergtuin, Rietfontein, Moregloed, Queenswood, Wonderboom South, Rietondale, and Kilner Park. The main hospital for the area is the Life Eugene Marais Hospital. Popular schools in the area include Hoërskool Oos-Moot and Voorpos Primary School.

In Wes Moot, you can purchase property in Capital Park, Mountain View, Suiderberg, Daspoort, and Pretoria Gardens.

Pretoria North's suburbs include Amandasig, Akasia, Dorandia, Florauna, Karenpark, Hesteapark, Clarina, Chantelle, Ninapark, and Theresapark.

If you're interested in Pretoria East, you can consider these suburbs: Equestria, Faerie Glen, Lynnwood, Lynnwood Glen, Lynnwood Ridge, Menlyn, Olympus, and Garsfontein. The main hospitals for the area are Netcare Pretoria East Hospital and Life Wilgers Hospital. Popular schools in the area include Hoërskool Garsfontein, Lynnwood Ridge Primary School, and Laerskool Tygerpoort.

Pretoria Old East's suburbs include Ashlea Gardens, Brooklyn, Groenkloof, Hatfield, Menlo Park, and Waterkloof. The main hospital for the area is Life Groenkloof Hospital (previously known as the Little Company of Mary Hospital). Popular schools in the area include Pretoria Boys High School, Pretoria High School for Girls, and Hoërskool Menlopark.

A brief history of the area

Pretoria's history is as colourful and diverse as the city is today. In the 1600s, the region around the river valley was originally inhabited by the southern Ndebele people. In 1855, the city was founded by Marthinus Pretorius, a Voortrekker leader and the first president of the South African Republic. Originating from two farms, Elandspoort and Koedoespoort, the then town was named 'Pretoria' after Marthinus's father, Andries Pretorius.

Although Pretoria has a complex history involving events like the South African War (Anglo-Boer War) and Apartheid, it has become a shining beacon of South Africa's new democracy. Nelson Mandela, the country's first black president, was inaugurated at Pretoria's Union Buildings in 1994.

Today, Pretoria has built a reputation as one of South Africa's most liveable cities. In 2014, the city was voted the best place to live in Gauteng in the Gauteng City-Region Observatory survey.

Climate

Because Pretoria lies in a sheltered valley surrounded by the hills of the Magaliesberg range, you can expect warmer weather compared to Johannesburg. Ideal for sun-worshippers, the average temperature averages 28-29ºC during the summer months. Even in winter, the temperature can soar as high as 20ºC, ensuring you'll be able to enjoy all of the city's scenic spots.

Schools in the area

With a variety of schools across Pretoria, you can guarantee your child's success. Each school provides a great balance of academic rigour, sporting focus, and co-curricular opportunities.

Primary schools in Pretoria include the following: Hamilton Primary School, Brooklyn Primary School, Waterkloof House Preparatory School, Lynnwood Ridge Primary School, Waterkloof Primary School, and Glenstantia Primary School.

Secondary schools in Pretoria include the following: Hoërskool Waterkloof, Hoërskool Garsfontein, Pretoria High School for Girls, Pretoria Boys High School, Hillview High School, Pretoria Secondary School, and Curro Academy Pretoria High School. For a combined experience, you can enrol at Crawford International Pretoria or Star College Pretoria.

There are also tertiary institutions ready to prepare learners for their careers. These include the University of Pretoria, Tshwane University of Technology, the University of South Africa, Varsity College, and Rosebank College, to name a few.

Healthcare in the area

Finding healthcare is simple in Pretoria. The area has an abundance of hospitals ready to provide quality treatment. Notable facilities include Netcare Pretoria East Hospital, Life Groenkloof Hospital, Louis Pasteur Private Hospital, Life Brooklyn Day Hospital,

Mediclinic Muelmed, and Netcare Jakaranda Hospital. Besides hospitals, there are several private healthcare providers and clinics available for consultation.

Shopping centres

As a major city in South Africa, you can trust Pretoria provides a stellar shopping experience. Whether you're after daily essentials or some retail therapy, there won't be a shopping centre far from your chosen suburb. Popular malls include Menlyn Park Shopping Centre, Brooklyn Mall, Lynnridge Mall, Sunnypark Shopping Centre, Woodlands Boulevard, Hatfield Plaza, The Grove Mall, Kolonnade Shopping Centre, and Parkview Shopping Centre.

Distance from key points (Airport/CBD)

Although Pretoria doesn't have a dedicated international airport, it is easy to access flights through Johannesburg. The city is roughly 36 minutes from O.R. Tambo International Airport (54 km) and 41 minutes from Lanseria International Airport (60 km). The presence of the Gautrain in Pretoria also makes it easy to reach these airports.

Pretoria is close to areas like Centurion (23 km), Midrand (40 km), and Johannesburg (59 km), allowing residents further opportunities for tourism and career prospects.

Restaurants

If you have a passion for food, Pretoria's culinary scene will be sure to impress. The city brings a range of flavours to the table, ensuring casual diners and fussy eaters alike are well taken care of. For quick takeaways and sit-down meals, you can turn to KFC, Steers, Fishaways, McDonald's, and more.

Pretoria's more upscale restaurants include Fermier Restaurant, a farm-style, self-sustaining restaurant where everything from the vegetables, fish to the meat are grown and reared on the property. Kream Brooklyn offers gourmet sushi, grills, pastas, and comfort food. Crawdaddy's infuses its dishes with local, Mediterranean, Thai and Portuguese flavours. Relish Bistro is known for its family-friendly meals and excellent service. Head to Hillside Tavern for award-winning steak and an inviting ambience.

Special attractions

Pretoria is jam-packed with experiences around every corner. The city holds appeal for those who appreciate history, art, culture, and nature. Here are a few places worth exploring:

1. The Voortrekker Monument: This massive granite structure is more than just a heritage conservation site. It is the place to learn the Afrikaner story, from the Great Trek to the Anglo-Boer War, and more.

2. National Zoological Garden: At the largest zoo in the country, you can learn about fascinating creatures, take rides, picnic, and even host your child's birthday party.

3. Rietvlei Nature Reserve: This gorgeous reserve is made up of open grassland with undulating hills with indigenous trees clustered in small groups. Visit it to spot animals, take a relaxing drive, or braai.

4. Pretoria National Botanical Garden: Discover one of South Africa's nine National Botanical Gardens, a 76-ha urban oasis filled with stunning indigenous fauna and flora.

5. Freedom Park: This cultural institution tells South Africa's story from the dawn of humanity, through pre-colonial, colonial and apartheid history and heritage, to today's post-Apartheid nation.

6. Ditsong National Museum of Natural History: This is a fantastic place to take the kids. It features fascinating collections and exhibits including Mrs Ples, a fossil skull believed to represent a distant relative of all humankind.

Why buy or rent property in Pretoria?

There's no doubt that Pretoria is a desirable place to live. The city has become a significant drawcard for those in search of exceptional schools, healthcare, career opportunities, infrastructure, shopping, and entertainment options. Pretoria offers a tranquil alternative for Johannesburg's fast-paced living while still being close to this economic powerhouse. Properties in Pretoria are also affordable for buyers and tenants, providing a home for young families, upcoming professionals, and retirees.

When it's results you want, contact us

Looking for an established real estate team in Pretoria? With offices situated in Magalieskruin, Property Legends are here to assist buyers and tenants find their dream home in Jacaranda City. With more than three decades of experience, we have the expertise needed to help you achieve your goals.

View our properties in Pretoria: