The second series of Irvine Welsh's Crime will be on our screens tonight (Wednesday, August 7) as detective Ray Lennox tackles crime and his own demons. Originally airing on streaming service ITVX, Dougray Scott reprise the role of troubled Detective Ray Lennox.

Based on a book by Trainspotting writer Irvine Welsh, the second series on ITV 1 will see Ray return to the fray at Edinburgh Serious Crimes, keen to prove he is fully recovered from his breakdown induced by bringing Mr Confectioner to justice.

Yet a lot has changed - Bob Toal has lost his mojo, while Amanda Drummond is newly promoted. There are also two new faces on the team, namely the devious Tommy Stark and failed actor Norrie Erskine. Alongside Dougray, Joanna Vanderham and Ken Stott return, while Rebecca Root and Gabriel Scott join the star-studded line-up.

But who stars in Crime series two, how can you watch the series and how many episodes are there? Here's everything you need to know.

What is the plot of Crime series 2?

Via ITV, the plot of Crime reads: “When one of Lennox’s former colleagues is attacked, Lennox and Drummond quickly realize that all is not as it seems, as they become embroiled in a case about vengeance, identity, and social justice.

“The attack is linked to a gruesome attempted murder of a high-ranking establishment figure at a posh hotel, which has been hushed up by the police. As Lennox investigates via Edinburgh’s saunas, crack dens, and poshest hotels, he finds doors slammed in his face; there is an Establishment cover-up at play.

“It’s not until the killer targets one of Lennox’s team that the pieces start to fall into place. Tracing the motivation back to an unsavoury incident 30 years ago, Lennox begins to realize that there is more to this case than meets the eye, and the killer he has been chasing may not be the driving force behind these murders after all.”

Who appears in Crime series 2?

The full cast list for the ITV series is as follows:

Dougray Scott plays DI Ray Lennox

Joanna Vanderham plays DS Amanda Drummond

Ken Stott plays CS Bob Toal

John Simm plays Gareth Horsborough

Derek Riddell plays Richie Gulliver

Gabriel Scott plays Fraser

Rebecca Root plays Lauren Fairchild

Dylan Blore plays Victor Maslo

Moyo Akandé plays Maria Pearson

Laura Fraser plays Sally Hart

Rob Black plays Scott Durie

How many episodes of Crime series 2 are there?

Like the first series, there will be six hour-long episodes in the second series. These episodes will be shown weekly on ITV1 but you can binge watch the series in full or at your own pace on ITVX.

The first series is available to watch on the same streaming platform.