LONDON, England (Reuters) -- The final scene of a television documentary said to show an Alzheimer's patient "passing away" was actually filmed three days before his death, the UK's ITV said on Wednesday, fuelling a row over fake TV.

ITV's Director of Television Simon Shaps said the sequence of events in "Malcolm and Barbara: Love's Farewell", due to be shown next week, should have been made clearer.

In publicity material issued to promote the film, ITV had said it ends with moving scenes as Malcolm Pointon, the subject of the documentary, "passes away".

"The film maker responsible ... has now confirmed that the film does not portray the moment of Malcolm's passing, which was in fact some days later," Shaps said in a statement.

"This will be made clear at the end of the film on transmission and should have been made clear earlier."

Television chiefs have come under intense pressure to improve standards after a series of deceptions were uncovered.

The latest row erupted after the family of the 66-year-old composer from Cambridgeshire said the cameras did not film the moment he died.

"We do not see him die. Filming finished three days before Malcolm stopped breathing," his brother Graham Pointon wrote on the Times newspaper's online comment section.

His widow Barbara Pointon said there's "no deception, there's no dishonour in this film at all".

"I have not been talking about his last gasp: I've been talking about the process of dying," she told BBC TV.

She said the last still picture describes the end "so sensitively, so poignantly and I think so brilliantly, Malcolm has died. End of story. And that is the end of the film."

The documentary's maker Paul Watson said he never intended to mislead viewers.

"I did not set out to deceive and I will know that to my dying day," he told BBC radio. "A trust that I have had for 11 years to film two very, very nice people enduring one of fate's worst illnesses will get wrecked."

He blamed publicity material given to journalists last week for the confusion and said he had asked ITV to include a caption at the end of the film to clarify it did not show the death.

The BBC and ITV have pledged to root out bad practice.

Last month, ITV Executive Chairman Michael Grade said he would enforce a "zero tolerance" policy, while BBC Director General Mark Thompson said the broadcaster needed to "put our house in order."

The BBC had to apologise to the Queen for implying in a documentary trailer that she had stormed out of a photo-shoot with photographer Annie Leibovitz.

That followed a 50,000 pound fine for a faked telephone competition on "Blue Peter". The media watchdog said there was a "systemic failure" over premium-rate phone quizzes. E-mail to a friend