March - St. Julien (Brass Band) Arthur W. Hughes arr. Keith M. Wilkinson

St Julien is a town near the French/Belgian border which witnessed several battles during WW1. The composer Arthur W. Hughes (1870-1950) was born in Kingston, Ontario, and left home when he was quite young to perform with circus bands in US. He wrote several marches and a few other compositions but this one, dating from 1918, is the most well-known. The march also works as a fast circus march. Here it has been expertly arranged for brass band by Dr. Keith M. Wilkinson. Difficulty Level: 4th Section + Sheet music available from: UK - www.brassband.co.uk USA - www.solidbrassmusic.com Instrumentation: Soprano Cornet Eb Solo Cornet Bb Repiano Cornet Bb 2nd Cornet Bb 3rd Cornet Bb Flugel Horn Bb Solo Horn Eb 1st Horn Eb 2nd Horn Eb 1st Baritone Bb 2nd Baritone Bb 1st Trombone Bb 2nd Trombone Bb Bass Trombone Euphonium Bb Bass Eb Bass Bb Percussion 1-3

In stock: Estimated dispatch 1-3 days

Watch video

March from 'The Love for Three Oranges (Brass Band) Prokofiev arr. Wilkinson

This thrilling brass band arrangement of the March from 'The Love for Three Oranges' by Prokofiev has been skillfully arranged by Keith M. Wilkinson. This setting captures the essence of the original orchestral work, while showcasing the power and brilliance of the brass band. In 1918, Sergei Prokofiev undertook his first visit to the United States. A number of concerts of his works were held in Chicago, which were received very favourably. As a result, the director of the Chicago Opera Association, Cleofonte Campanini, commissioned Prokofiev to write an opera. It just so happened that, during his trip, he had written a draft of a libretto, based on the Italian play by Gozzi, L'amore delle tre melarance, adding some additional surrealism to the text. Given Prokofiev's poor English, and Americans unlikely to accept an opera in Russian, French was his final choice. The result, L'amour des trois oranges (or The Love for Three Oranges), which premiered at the Auditorium Theatre in Chicago on 30 December 1921, conducted by Prokofiev himself. The March from this opera is probably the most familiar part and has been used by CBS in the radio-drama series The FBI in Peace and War. It was also used in films such as The Brink's Job and Prokofiev quoted it in the second act of his ballet Cinderella. To view a rolling score video of the work please visit www.youtube.com/watch?v=I136sf8hxlU Duration: Approx. 2.10 minutes Difficulty Level: 3rd Section + PDF download includes parts and score. Sheet music available from www.brassband.co.uk Instrumentation: Soprano Cornet Eb Solo Cornet Bb Repiano Cornet Bb 2nd Cornet Bb 3rd Cornet Bb Flugel Horn Bb Solo Horn Eb 1st Horn Eb 2nd Horn Eb 1st Baritone Bb 2nd Baritone Bb 1st Trombone Bb 2nd Trombone Bb Bass Trombone Euphonium Bb Bass Eb Bass BbTimpani Percussion 1-2

In stock: Estimated dispatch 1-3 days