Founded: May 2005

Location: Tarrytown, N.Y.

What does the company offer? Products including Open-Xchange Server 5, a platform for e-mail, calendaring, documents, contacts and task management.

Why is it worth watching? The small vendor found the spotlight in February of this year when 1&1 Internet, the world’s largest Web hosting company, said it will use Open-Xchange’s open source software to deploy more than 1 million e-mail accounts. Open-Xchange isn’t posing any major threat to Microsoft, but analysts called the deal an important step for the open source market.

How did the company get its start? The founders’ roots go back to Netline in Germany, which added its collaborative software to the SUSE Linux Openexchange Server. They later decided to move to an open source development model and make the software available to customers independent of Linux distribution.

How did the company get its name? Founders wanted to show continuity with the software’s previous incarnation as part of the SUSE Linux Openexchange Server. The company says the name’s similarity to Microsoft Exchange is “purely coincidence.”

CEO and background: Jerry Labie was most recently president and CEO of CXO Systems, an enterprise software vendor bought by Cisco. Before that he was president and COO of Novadigm, a system management software vendor acquired by HP.

Funding: Investments (amount not disclosed) from Robert A. Young, a venture capitalist and investment banker; retired IBM executive Lee Dayton; Richard Seibt, the former head of Suse; and BayTech Venture Capital.

Who’s using the product? More than 2,000 companies in 65 nations.

Company name: Pleyo

Founded: April 2006

Location: Montpellier, France

What does the company offer? OWB, an open source Web browser designed for mobile phones, portable media players, set top boxes and other consumer electronic products. Pleyo released OWB in July and plans more Web services for consumer electronics.

Why is it worth watching? Pleyo hasn’t launched publicly yet, but says it has developed “reference implementations” of its Web browser on cell phones, high-end mobile devices like the Nokia N800, stand-alone media centers and a television.

How did the company get its start? With the introduction of the iPhone, the founders say the market for Web-based solutions on consumer devices is quickly maturing and that Web 2.0 technologies should be more widely available on these products.

How did the company get its name? Pleyo is a variation on the word “play,” for entertainment, and the “o” is supposed to resemble a video screen.

CEO and background: Joel Reboul was founder and CEO of eProcess, a software editor for consumer electrics devices, which merged with Teamlog-DMS to become Iwedia.

Funding: Currently self-funded. The first round of external funding is expected in the fourth quarter.

Who’s using the product? The browser has been downloaded 544 times, mostly by research and development departments from various industries, according to Pleyo.

Company name: Talend

Founded: August 2005. The vendor’s first product came out in October 2006.

Location: Suresnes, France, with additional offices in California

What does the company offer? A data-integration platform known as Open Studio, and a software-as-a-service offering called Talend On Demand.

Why is it worth watching? Talend is jumping on two of the hot software trends in open source and software as a service. Customers looking to save money should feel safe going to an open source vendor because data-integration products tend to be similar in terms of functionality, Forrester analyst Michael Goulde has said.

How did the company get its start? Co-founders Bertrand Diard and Fabrice Bonan were managing the data-integration practice for a large systems integrator, using proprietary data-integration technologies from Informatica, IBM and Business Objects. They decided there should be a more flexible and open way to pursue data integration, so they developed an open source product.

How did the company get its name? The founders wanted to include the letters ETL, which stands for extract, transform and load in the data-integration market. They put the letter “D” at the end to signify that they perform integration differently than pre-existing vendors.

CEO and background: Diard was the business manager at a European systems integrator, and in 1999 co-founded a software company specializing in real-time 3D animation.

Funding: $7 million from AGF Private Equity and Galileo Partners.

Who’s using the product? Customers include Monster.com, ETAI, University of Toulouse, SEMIDEP, Accor, BTD ClearViews, SNCF French Railways, and Swissport.

Company name: Wikia

Founded: November 2004

Location: San Mateo, Calif., and New York

What does the company offer? Founded by Jimmy Wales of Wikipedia, Wikia makes this list because it is building an open source search engine that should be available by the end of 2007. The project got a boost in July when Wikia bought Grub, an open source tool that will help Wikia build an index of the Web. With Grub, Wikia is able to offload the cost of crawling the Web to volunteers who download the Grub program.

Why is it worth watching? Wikia’s project will allow people to build search engines even if they lack the financial resources of a large corporation. Wikia CEO Gil Penchina believes this will vastly increase the number of specialty search sites focusing on specific topics, such as medicine. Wikia will also use the code to host its own public-facing search site.

Wikia believes this project is important because search and its “supersecret” algorithms is one of the few areas of the Internet that is not open and transparent. “We’ve seen this explosion in creativity in Web 2.0 and we haven’t seen it in search,” Penchina says.

How did the project get its start? Penchina and Wales developed the idea and recruited Jeremie Miller, who founded the open source IM protocol Jabber, to lead the technical aspects of the project.

How did the company get its name? Like Wikipedia, Wikia is an obvious variation on the Hawaiian word “wiki,” which is used to refer to collaborative Web sites that can be edited by users. Wikia has supported the creation of more than 3,000 wiki communities in more than 70 languages.

CEO and background: Penchina worked at eBay for eight years, ultimately as vice president for a region of Europe, before leaving in March 2006.

Funding for the search project: $4 million from eBay founder Pierre Omidyar; Lotus Software founder Mitchell Kapor; and Netscape founder Marc Andreessen. Amazon has also contributed an undisclosed amount.

Company name: XenSource

Founded: January 2005

Location: Palo Alto, Calif.

What does the company offer? Server virtualization products based on the Xen open source hypervisor. XenEnterprise, the company’s first product, came out in December 2006.

Why is it worth watching? In a market dominated by VMware, smaller vendors like XenSource are poised to gain ground because hardware improvements designed by Intel and AMD have made it far easier to write virtualization software. As an open source vendor, XenSource figures to attract customers looking to expand virtualization without paying hefty license fees.

XenSource is about to be acquired by Citrix Systems, which agreed to buy the company for $500 million on Aug. 15.

How did the company get its start? Wall Street bankers urged Ian Pratt, leader of the Xen hypervisor project, to start a vendor that could meet their unique support and feature needs. The founders of the Xen hypervisor subsequently started XenSource.

How did the company get its name? XenSource was chosen because the company’s product line is a natural extension to the Xen project.

CEO and background: Peter Levine was a managing director of the Mayfield Fund before joining XenSource, and has more than 20 years experience in software organizations, including Veritas Software and MIT’s Project Athena.

Funding: Venture capital (amount not disclosed) from Ignition Partners, NEA, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Sevin Rosen and Accel.