At Jesus School, we will gather each day to sit at the feet of Jesus. We will worship Him, learn of Him, and go out from this place of His presence to share the Gospel with the entire world by the power of the Holy Spirit.

Our instructors are men and women that have surrendered their lives to Jesus and forged a path of faith to see God’s will manifested through them on the earth. It is our honor and privilege to serve alongside them for this nation-shaking experience. We invite you to join us in Orlando as we radically pursue the heart of God! Now is the time!

Michael & Jessica Koulianos

Founders / directors

Michael and Jessica Koulianos are the founders and directors of Jesus School in Orlando, Florida.

Michael is the founder of Jesus Image, an international ministry consisting of :

Jesus Image Church, a family of believers in Orlando, who burn for the Presence of Jesus Himself.

Jesus School, a ministry school with a mission to raise up a company of Jesus People.

Jesus Events, which are nationwide events where thousands gather to worship and encounter God.

Michael is also the author of several life-changing books, The Jesus Book, The Jesus Book Study Guide, Holy Spirit: the One Who Makes Jesus Real, Jesus 365: a Daily Devotional with the Son of God, Christ Is Risen and Healing Presence: Discover the Healing Power of the Word of God.

Jessica is the co-founder of Jesus Image and the Director of Jesus School.

As the Director of Jesus School, Jessica leads with a powerful prophetic voice and a deep authenticity. Her heart is to see each student experience new levels of breakthrough and live in pure, undivided devotion to the Lord.

Jessica is also an international speaker, carrying a unique depth of wisdom and insight that releases others into an encounter with the Lord. While she loves ministering around the world, her favorite place to speak is at home with her students and church family.

Together Michael and Jessica steward a burning desire to win cities, nations, and the world with the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Through their faithful leadership, Jesus Image has seen thousands come to Jesus and multitudes healed by the power of God. Michael and Jessica reside in the Orlando area along with their three children.

What is Jesus School?

Earn College Credit: Articulation Agreements

Regent University

As a graduate of one or two years of Jesus School, you will be eligible to receive a 20% discount and 9 credit hours towards your education. Regent University offers 135 various degree programs at the undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral levels. This is an amazing opportunity to take the next step in your continuing education.

For more information, please visit

https://www.regent.edu/.

Faith International University

As a graduate of one or two years of Jesus School, Students are eligible to receive up to 30 transfer credits; 33% discount on credit hour cost; and are eligible to receive additional accelerated credits when enrolled.

This is an amazing opportunity to take the next step in your continuing education.

For more information, please visit

Faith International University.

Logos University

As a graduate of one or two years of Jesus School, Students are eligible to receive 30 transfer credits; and credit hour cost at $100, without any additional discounts.

This is an amazing opportunity to take the next step in your continuing education.

For more information, please visit