Joyalukkas has firmed up four film stars as their brand ambassadors to connect with customers in four regions of India where the jeweller has branches.

The jewellery retail chain is also planning to open 60 shops in India in the next three years.

The four brand ambassadors signed up the jewellery chain are R Madhavan, Suresh Gopi, Sudeep and Allu Arjun.

Joyalukkas is at present celebrating its 25th anniversary in the Gulf and 10th anniversary in India.

“The four film starts have strong following in their respective regions of the country,” said Joy Alukkas, chairman and managing direction of the jewellery group.

The jeweller’s advertising campaigns featuring the four brand ambassadors will start in the respective regions of India shortly.

The four film start were signed up after extensive research in the south Indian states of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka to gauge their popularity.

R Madhavan, who has been associated with the jewellery retail chain for three years now, said: “I believe I am a very integral part of the Joyalukkas family now and it has been my most favourite endorsement to date.”

Suresh Gopi said: “This is the first time I am endorsing a brand and I only agreed to be a part of the Joyalukkas family because I admire and respect Mr Joy Alukkas and his phenomenal success inspires me.”

Kannada actor Sudeep said ‘This is a first for me too, I have never endorsed a brand before and I feel it is a privilege to start with a brand like Joyalukkas.”

Telegu actor Allu Arjun said, “It’s exciting to be a part of a well-known jewellery chain. I am proud to endorse it.’

New designs and collections will be introduced in Joyalukkas jewellery shops as part of the brand endorsement strategy.

“We are hoping our new brand ambassador strategy will help us connect better with our customers and attract new ones to our jewellery shops,” said Joy Alukkas.

Joyalukkas’ Chennai showroom has been recognised by the Limca Book of World Records as the largest jewellery showroom in the world. Joyalukkas has also been voted as a ‘superbrand’ for four years in a row in the UAE.

The Joyalukkas Group has businesses in India, Britain, Singapore, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Oman, Kuwait and Qatar which include jewellery, fashion and textiles, money exchange, luxury air charter, malls and real estate.

Follow Emirates 24|7 on Google News.