The globally renowned jewelry retail chain expanded its presence in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia by opening its new showroom, located in Dammam Ladies Market, King Faisal Street, Dammam. This is as part of their mega expansion plan for this financial year as committed rapid expansion across India, GCC and a couple of new countries. The Showroom was inaugurated by John Paul Alukkas, Executive Director, Joyalukkas Group and Sattam Al Omairy, Director, Joyalukkas KSA, in the presence of many local dignitaries and VIPs.

“Our plan for Joyalukkas Jewellery in this financial year includes strengthening our presence across the world, opening our showrooms in cities and towns that we feel is ready for Joyalukkas experience” said Joy Alukkas, Chairman & MD, Joyalukkas Group. “I am very pleased to say we are well on our way to fulfilling our promise to be wherever our customers are, and are planning to expand our presence in the region further.”

“Vision for our jewelry business is to ‘ornament the world’ and we will manage this by offering customers the best mix of Price, Choice, Convenience and Service” said John Paul Alukkas, Executive Director, Joyalukkas Group.

Joyalukkas Jewellery is currently a 120 plus showroom chain network spread across 11 countries around the world. The brand which is one of the world’s largest jewellery retail chains is a part of a multi-billion dollar global conglomerate, which has varied business interests. The Joyalukkas Group’s business interests include jewelry, money exchange, fashion & silks, luxury air charter, malls and realty. The world’s largest jewelry retail chain has presence in Singapore, London, UAE, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman & India and will soon open in 2 new countries. The jewelry retailer currently has a customer base of over 10 million customers worldwide and offers over 1 million choices in all types of jewelry at each of its showroom.

Joyalukkas at Dammam Ladies Market, King Faisal Street is now open to the public, where they can enjoy the same great value, variety and quality shopping experience they have come to expect of the world’s favorite jeweler.

The showroom features over One Million dazzling collections and exquisite designs in gold, diamond, precious stones, platinum and pearl. The collection is a mix of traditional, ethno contemporary and international designs that have won of hearts and following of customers around the world.

The international jewelry retail chain is also one of few retail chains to be recognized with many awards and accolades for its exceptional standards in jewelry retailing. Joyalukkas has also been awarded the prestigious ‘Superbrand’ status 7 years in a row. — SG