Apparently, Bold & Beautiful‘s writers decided that Hope cheated on Liam for reasons that don’t entirely make sense… but it’s okay, I’m still here for it. Why? Because damned if this week’s fallout — in particular, Hope’s scenes with mom Brooke on Monday — weren’t friggin’ great soap opera. Read on and we’ll discuss that, as well as how poor Finn is being railroaded.

And The Emmy Goes To…

Go ahead and engrave Annika Noelle’s name on one of the statues that’ll be handed out next year, because Hope’s portrayer earned it. I’ve long considered Noelle an underrated actress, largely because the show has written Hope as a one-note character. But man, that definitely changed when Hope defended herself to Brooke while also speaking some harsh truths.

Credit: CBS screenshot

“Sure, yes, you and Ridge have managed to smooth things out of late,” said a borderline disgusted Hope. “But how many decades has it been of you chasing after him, begging for his love, worrying that he’s thinking about somebody else. I don’t want that!”

If one thing kinda angered me about this particular episode — which also featured Liam confessing to Wyatt that he’d kissed Steffy — it’s that it raised this question: If Bold & Beautiful can be this good, this compelling, this well written… why is it so often a boring, repetitive mess?

The “Ex” Factor

When Hope began looking lustfully in Thomas’ general direction, it felt as if the show was going… somewhere. Maybe she’d developed a split personality? At one point, I even theorized that her water was being drugged. But this week, we were told that no, it was actually all just basically about her lingering resentment toward Steffy and the role she’d played in Hope and Liam’s relationship.

While that resulted in some great scenes this week, including Hope pointing out her spouse’s hypocrisy, it didn’t really make much sense. Sure, Liam reacted to seeing his wife kiss Thomas by dashing off to plant a smooch on Steffy. But back when Hope started getting tingly down there every time Thomas was in the room, Steffy was pretty much a non-issue. If anything, Steffy was the one trying to keep Hope from making a huge mistake.

Credit: Howard Wise/JPI

Speaking of which, Jacqueline MacInnes Wood has doing a great job — even while hidden behind ever-bigger purses and beneath fluffy, pregnancy-hiding blankets — at playing Steffy’s complicated situation. Obviously, not telling Finn about the kisses Liam forced upon her is going to prove problematic. Had she been honest from the start, Finn would likely have been upset, but with Liam, not his wife.

Given the history Liam and Steffy share, I suspect it will be the secret which causes big issues, not the actual kiss.

Mommy and Me

Obviously, it’s ridiculous that Finn was the only doctor in all of Los Angeles who could be pressed into swinging by the prison to make sure Sheila was “fit to stand trial.” I mean, isn’t that something the prison doctor should have done? But Finn trotted off to the jail, where he insisted for about 10 whole minutes that he would not be a part of her life…

Credit: CBS Screenshot

… only to then share a wildly creepy and borderline inappropriate moment in which I and half the internet honestly thought they were going to kiss. Worse, Finn claimed that being held by her “feels like something that I have been missing my whole life” which is beyond ridiculous given that we know he was raised in a loving household by Li, an absolutely wonderful mom.

But of course, this is all being done in order to pave the way for there to be tensions between Steffy and Finn, setting the stage for her portrayer’s maternity leave exit. And his never-before-present desire to get closer to Sheila is the only thing available because Finn has been given absolutely no character traits aside from “loving husband” and “awesome dude.”

Sorry, Finn, but your newly-arisen mommy issues — combined with Steffy’s secret — are about to knock you upside the head so hard you’re left muttering “Libbity Bibbity.” If we needed further proof, we need look no further than the hunk suddenly declaring out of the blue that he wouldn’t tolerate anything “inappropriate” between Liam and Steffy. Or Liam taking such a keen interest in your interactions with Sheila.

As for Sheila being set free, did anyone really expect a different outcome? The judge throwing out the evidence and declaring it had been illegally obtained was kinda ridiculous, and yet… yeah. We knew it was coming.

Random Thoughts

• It’s official: R.J.’s only purpose is to spout exposition and up the beefcake factor, both of which he did while talking to Ridge about Hope’s marital woes.

Credit: CBS Screenshot

• Ridge and Brooke have reunited and are presumably living together. So how is it that he had no idea that her encounter with Thomas had gone south? Then again, we’re talking about Ridge here, so I guess it’s completely possible he was oblivious to Brooke coming home truly shaken to her core.

• When the heck did Hope have time to get those divorce papers drawn up?

• The only thing more awkward than the Sheila/Finn near-kiss was Thomas not excusing himself as Hope and her mom were hashing things out.