NEW YORK, July 31 -- A New York City woman was sentenced Wednesday to 15 years to life as the result of a plea bargain she struck with prosecutors for murdering her 6-year-old daughter, Elisa Izquierdo, last year. Awilda Lopez, 30, wailed in the Manhattan courtroom for several minutes before finally uttering a single audible sentence: 'I'm sorry for whatever happened.' Izquierdo's death sparked nationwide outrage and brought about reforms in local child abuse laws after it was revealed that authorities did not act on reports from teachers, neighbors and relatives who suspected the little girl was being abused by her crack-addicted mother. At the sentencing in Manhattan state Supreme Court, Justice Alvin Schlesinger also lashed out at the system. 'This community, this body politic, in some respects is at fault,' he said. 'They have not created a priority for babies, for the unprotected, for the most vulnerable amongst us. 'We have to make it a priority where we say we will do everything necessary...and don't tell me how much it costs, because we should do it anyway.' Calling the case 'horrendous,' Schlesinger said it was 'a tragedy for Elisa but it also has to be a tragedy for Ms. Lopez because it's something that mothers aren't suposed to do.' There's nothing that we can do to make this understandable,' the judge added. After her arrest in November 1995, Lopez told police she threw the first-grader against the wall of their Manhattan apartment because she believed the child was possessed by the devil.

She later said the confession had been coerced and that her boyfriend, who was charged with endangerment and attempted assault, beat Elisa to death. Two months later, she reversed herself again, pleading guilty to second-degree murder in exchange for the sentence of 15 years to life. Lopez would have faced a maximum of 25 years to life if she had been convicted at trial. Lopez's attorney, Dan Ollen, said he thought the deal was fair and that Lopez's courtroom tears showed she understood the gravity of her actions. 'l think the magnitude of what she did finally hit her,' Ollen said. 'She apologized to her deceased child.' Among those at the sentencing was a woman who knew Elisa at a time when her life seemed to be taking a turn for the better. Patricia Stevens is the spokeswoman for the YWCA of Brooklyn where Izquierdo attended day-care and pre-school programs, her tuition paid by Prince Michael of Greece. 'I don't hate Awilda. I never did. It's just a very sad comment on our society,' said Stevens, one of the people who reported her suspicions that Elisa was being battered.