Super Model, International Beauty Queen, Designer, Singer, Actress, Famous Personality, and much more can describe Lebanon’s most famous “Farfoura”, Dominique Hourani.

Dominique, born on August 7th, 1983, is the daughter of a prominent and well known archeologist, Dr. Youssef Hourani. Dominique, who is originally from Yaroun in South Lebanon, grew up in Beirut as a top student who loved fashion magazines and billboards, and always dreamed of being the face on the cover magazines and billboards as a child.

While studying at the Lebanese American University, Dominique modeled under Nidal’s agency in order to pay her college tuition. As time went by, Dominique started to become Lebanon’s most famous model, with her face plastered on all buildings in Lebanon. Then in 2003, Dominique was asked to represent Lebanon in the Miss Intercontinental 2003 beauty pageant in Berlin, Germany.

Dominique blew out her competition of over 80 countries and toke home the crown. After winning the title, Dominique would become the Arab world’s first super model, modeling for designers like Dior, Valentino, Versace, and many more in Milan and Paris.

After spending about 2 ½ years working as a model in Europe’s fashion capitals, Dominique returned to Lebanon determined to have her voice heard among the Arab world.

Dominique first appeared on the hit television series, “3youn Kha2iyna” (The Eyes of the Deceiver), alongside famous TV presenter, Tony Khalifa. The show was a hit with the ratings and helped Dominique establish herself as an actress.

In August of 2005, Dominique toke the Arabic music world by storm by filming her first clip for the song “Farfoura”. The clip was considered controversial by the Arabic world, but that did not stop it from reaching number one on the charts. “Farfoura” also gave Dominique her nickname, “Farfoura” which means butterfly in the Lebanese dialect.

After “Farfoura” Dominique released the top 10 hits, “Ganenii”, “Wawa Ahh”, “Atriss”, “Aiwa Di Ana”, “Garrab” and “Khachouka” over two years. All her singles and clips reached number one besides “Aiwa Di Ana” which premiered at number three, and “Ganenii” at number four.

With her extreme and fast success that her singles were able to achieve, her debut album “Atriss” went to number one and stayed there for weeks, selling millions all over the Middle East. She was able to tour all over the Middle East and World, including a concert in June 2006 in Detroit, USA where over 300 thousand people attended.

Dominique continues to work on her music career, with her second album “Kermalik Ya Dominique” expected to be released sometime in May of 2008.