Somehow, I missed on my calendar that January 30th was Livia Drusilla's birthday. Recently, I acquired a coin of hers because I couldn't resist it after reading I, Claudius

Livia, wife of Augustus

issued under Tiberius, 22-23 CE

Æ 30mm, 13,07g

obv. draped bust of Livia to right as Salus, SALVS AVGVSTA below

rev. TI CAESAR DIVI AVG F AVG P M TR POT XXIIII legend around SC

S.1740, RIC 47, BMC 81

I'm aware that I'm preaching to those who know this history far better than I, but Livia was one of the more fascinating women in Roman history. When she and Augustus first met, they were both married. This should be great rom-com material and I'm surprised no movie (I know of) has covered it, but both Livia and Augustus' wife were nine months pregnant at the time.

So infatuated were they that Augustus promptly divorced his wife on the day she gave birth to his daughter Julia. Livia was a bit more conservative here and gave birth to her younger son Nero Claudius Drusus (who became better known as Germanicus) three days after the wedding.

It's pretty well documented that Livia was a model for female piety. She reportedly shunned extravagance and was a valuable counselor to Augustus throughout his reign. We have no idea how much she impacted his policies, but it appears she must have. There was only the matter of the succession.

Livia had two sons: Germanicus and Tiberius. Augustus had only the daughter, Julia, and the two never had any children together. There was the small matter, though, of Julia's sons. She had three of them.

Luckily for Livia, they dropped out of the running one by one.

Gaius Caesar died of an illness while in Lycia

Agrippa Postumus was banished due to his "illiberal nature" and was executed around the time of Augustus' death

Lucius Caesar also died of an illness in Gaul

I have a coin with Gaius and Lucius issued by Augustus. They look so happy touching hands here. It's a shame they both perished from an "illness".

AUGUSTUS (27 BCE-14 CE)

Denarius. Lugdunum.

19mm 3.77g

Obv: CAESAR AVGVSTVS DIVI F PATER PATRIAE. Laureate head right.

Rev: AVGVSTI F COS DESIG PRINC IVVENT / C L CAESARES.

Caius and Lucius Caesar standing facing; two shields, two sceptres; lituus and simpulum above.

RIC² 209

Unfortunately for Livia, her younger and more popular son Germanicus also died of an illness, but overall these illnesses, banishments, and executions left her elder son Tiberius conveniently as the only one left for succession.

Of course, in I, Claudius, Livia is shown to have poisoned everyone left to right. This was spurred by a number of later Roman writers who suspected the same, but the truth is we really don't know. At that time it was just assumed men used the sword and women resorted to poison.

In terms of her coinage itself, Augustus didn't issue any imperial coinage during his life for her, though there was some provincial coinage. AFAIK, her name isn't explicitly spelled out on any imperial coinage under Tiberius either, but my coin was obviously made for her. The portrait matches those we know of her and the words "SALUS AUGUSTA" obviously refer to her.

It was minted in 22 CE, a year during which Livia underwent a severe illness and wasn't expected to make it. Tiberius rushed back from Capri to be with her, and she recovered. Since the coin is wishing "health to the Augusta", we assume it was minted to congratulate her on regaining her health. Later on, they had a falling out, and when she truly was on her deathbed in 29 CE, Tiberius did not return from Capri but sent Caligula to give her death oratory.

Nevertheless, she was one of the grande dames of history and in her honor I propose that we each have a nice dinner tonight, during which we eat some figs and have that one person we trust most in life pour us a drink...