Sodexo (2024)

Representation of Sodexo on the spin-off of its Benefits and Rewards Services business, under the brand name Pluxee, and its listing on Euronext Paris.

Icade Santé (2023)

Representation of healthcare property investor Icade Santé and its minority shareholders Predica, Sogecap and BNP Paribas Cardif on the sale of Icade's stake in Icade Santé to European real estate asset management platform Primonial REIM.

Agence des Participations de l'Etat (2022)

Representation of the French state, acting through the Agence des Participations de l'Etat (APE), as shareholder of Aéroports de Paris (Groupe ADP) on unwinding the cross-shareholdings held by Groupe ADP and Royal Schiphol Group (RSG).

Biosynex (2022)

Representation of Biosynex on:

the acquisition of Enalees' business going concern relating to medical diagnostic products;

the acquisition of the entire share capital and voting rights of Doc2u from its founders;

the acquisition of 75% of BHR Pharmaceuticals Ltd from its founders;

the acquisition of the entire share capital and voting rights of Bigix Pharma S.r.l.

Casino Group (2022)

Representation of Casino Group on the sale, together with Tikehau Capital and French public investment bank Bpifrance, of their majority stake in GreenYellow, the energy subsidiary of Casino group, to Ardian Infrastructure for an enterprise value of €1.4 billion and an equity value of €1.1 billion.

FCDE (2021/2022)

Representation of private equity fund FCDE (Fonds de Consolidation et de Développement des Entreprises) on the acquisition of Bertin Technologies, a company that specialises in the development and integration of scientific instrument systems, from CNIM and Equitis Gestion.

Faurecia (2021)

Representation of Faurecia, one of the world's largest automotive equipment suppliers, on the launch of a tender offer for HELLA and the acquisition of 60% of HELLA's shares currently held by the family shareholder pool.

RTL Group (2021)

Representation of RTL Group, Europe's largest broadcaster, on its entry into exclusive negotiations with Groupe TF1, Groupe M6 and Groupe Bouygues to merge the activities of Groupe TF1 and Groupe M6 and create a major French media group.

Activa Capital (2021)

Representation of Activa Capital, an independent private equity firm focused on mid-sized French companies, and the senior management team of Active Assurances Group, on the sale of Active Assurances Group to Meilleurtaux Group.

Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations (2021)

Representation of Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations on the sale of its minority stakes held in three biomass plants (Kogeban, Cogénération Biomasse d'Estrées-Mons et Cogénération Biomasse de Novillars) to PEARL Infrastructure Capital.

Aéma Groupe (2020/2021)

Representation of Aéma Groupe, a leading French mutual insurer formed through the combination of Macif Group and Aésio Mutuelle, on entry into exclusive negotiations with Aviva, one of the leading insurers in Europe, to acquire Aviva France for €3.2 billion.