WASHINGTON (AP) — The Justice Department gave conditional approval Tuesday to SBC Communications’ planned takeover of Ameritech in a merger that would create the nation’s largest local telephone company.

The merger would combine two Baby Bells into a local telephone colossus that would control 57 million phone lines, almost a third of the nation’s phone lines spread through 13 states.

The Justice Department approved the merger as long as the companies sell some cellular properties in each of 17 markets. Once that is done, SBC also can proceed with another deal to buy the cellular telephone operations of Comcast.

Valued at $57 billion when it was announced last May, the merger still requires approval of the Federal Communications Commission, which is reviewing the deal.

SBC and Ameritech, which have agreed to the condition, will have to sell one of two cellular properties in each of those markets in Illinois, Indiana and Missouri. Markets include the major metropolitan areas of Chicago and St. Louis, the Justice Department said.

It is among the largest divestiture agreements involving a merger ever required by the Justice Department’s antitrust division, the department said.

By fusing the companies’ adjoining local phone territories, the merged company would control a swath of the Midwest from Wisconsin to Texas.

Shareholders of both companies have approved the merger, which the companies hope to close by the middle of this year.

Federal restrictions bar a Bell telephone company from owning more than one cellular or wireless property in a market.

The Consumers Union, the Consumer Federation of America and long-distance companies want the Justice Department and the FCC to block the deal.

Consumer groups argue that San Antonio-based SBC Communications and Chicago-based Ameritech, whose local phone territories abut each other on the Missouri-Illinois border, would have been each other’s biggest competitor and thus should not be allowed to merge.

They also contend that the merged company would be so formidable it would discourage other companies from offering local phone service within its 13-state local phone region. That would blunt the prospects of lower phone rates through competition, the critics say.

The companies, supported by major telephone unions, argue that the merger would be good for consumers and for competition. The merger, they say, will spur local phone competition and possibly lower prices, accelerate the roll-out of high-speed Internet access and data services and create jobs. The companies say they intend to expand beyond the combined 13-state region and provide local telephone service in an additional 30 markets, outside their combined local phone territory and in competition with other Bell companies.

SBC and Ameritech say they need the financial muscle and efficiencies that combining will bring to be able to invade other states outside their current local phone territories and compete against fellow Bell companies.

The FCC has raised questions about the need to get bigger to compete. The FCC has been considering imposing conditions on the merger and hasn’t ruled out any options, including blocking it.

If the combined company eventually wins federal permission to provide long-distance service to its local phone customers, the company would be a potent rival to AT&T and to MCI WorldCom.

The FCC and the Justice Department are reviewing Bell Atlantic’s planned merger with GTE. If that deal goes through, it would replace SBC-Ameritech as the largest local phone company.

If the SBC-Ameritech merger does win FCC approval, and the deal is closed, it would leave just four remaining Bells out of the seven created in the breakup of the original American Telephone & Telegraph, which provided both local and long-distance phone service.

SBC has previously gobbled up another Bell company, Pacific Telesis, which provides local phone service in California and Nevada.

The 13 states in the proposed merger are Arkansas, California, Connecticut, Kansas, Missouri, Nevada, Oklahoma, Texas, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio and Wisconsin.