Ameritech knew it was in for a fight when it became the first Baby Bell to seek permission to provide long-distance phone service to customers in Michigan. But it didn't know things would turn so nasty so fast.

MCI Telecommunications Corp. was the first long-distance service provider to draw its dagger and call for the Federal Communications Commission to turn down Ameritech's request. MCI accused Ameritech of fleecing customers with "grossly inflated" fees, and of actively working to impede local phone competition in Michigan.

"By any competitive or public-interest standard, Ameritech's application to begin offering in-region, long-distance service should be rejected," said Jonathan B. Sallet, MCI's chief policy counsel.

AT&T, meanwhile, insisted that Ameritech hadn't yet opened its local market to competition, and thus had not met a key criterion for providing long-distance service as defined by last year's Telecommunications Act.

But Burke Stinson, an AT&T spokesman, conceded that his company is also mindful of protecting its share of the US$2.5 billion-a-year US long-distance phone market. "The money is big, so the battles will be fierce," he said. "It looks as if there's going to be a lot of tricks up people's sleeves."

"They need a reality check," Sprint spokeswoman Sydney Shaw said of Ameritech's long-distance plans. "No way have they met the checklist" of federal criteria. She added that Sprint is ready to "vigorously oppose" Ameritech's efforts.

For its part, Chicago-based Ameritech has chosen to take the opposition in stride. Sara Snyder, a company spokeswoman, said Ameritech has been planning for years to offer long-distance service in its five-state area of Michigan, Ohio, Illinois, Indiana, and Wisconsin, and knew from the start that the Big Three long-distance companies would do all they could to protect their interests.

"The long-distance companies have everything to gain from blocking us," she said. "You can imagine that they're running scared."

In response to accusations that Ameritech's approximately 4.5 million customers in Michigan constitute a monopoly on local phone service, Snyder countered that AT&T, MCI, and Sprint aren't exactly paragons of free-market enterprise. "They've raised their prices in lock step eight times since 1990," she said. "That's not competition."

The FCC now has 90 days to rule on Ameritech's petition. Snyder said the company is prepared to begin offering long-distance service in Michigan "the day they say yes," and expects to seek the FCC's go-ahead this year to offer "competitive" long-distance rates throughout its service area.

The Telecommunications Act allows Baby Bells to offer long-distance service as long as they can prove that their local markets are open to competition and that offering such service is in the public interest, plus a dozen or so other requirements.

Judging from the initial response by the long-distance companies, the battle line will be drawn over whether Ameritech has indeed opened the Michigan phone market to free and fair competition. MCI pretty much spoke for the bunch when it said Ameritech's claims to this effect are "premature and misleading."

When the dust finally settles, the upshot may be that more companies will offer long-distance service to consumers, but rates may not vary all that much. As AT&T's Stinson put it: "There are damn few people who go to bed at night wondering about their long-distance service. People will hear the same tune sung by different companies."

EVs Are Losing Up to 50 Percent of Their Value in One Year

Some electric car brands are hemorrhaging value, with the worst losing as much as $600 a day. In this investigation, WIRED outlines which models to watch, why this is happening, and how you can game the market to your advantage.

The 2025 Ford Maverick Shows That Hybrid Pickup Trucks Are Going Mainstream

Just as Tesla ditches its $60,000 Cybertruck, Ford finally allows buyers to pair its efficient hybrid powertrain with all-wheel drive and a towing package. Hallelujah.

Google Has Unleashed Its Legal Fury on Hackers and Scammers

The tech giant says its “affirmative litigation” deters and raises awareness of bad behavior. Skeptics wonder whether these suits are too small a gesture.

Elon Musk Is No Climate Hero

During a live interview with Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, the former president literally said, “Drill, baby, drill.” Musk met the statement with … silence.

This Code Breaker Is Using AI to Decode the Heart’s Secret Rhythms

Inspired by his expertise in breaking ancient codes, Roeland Decorte built a smartphone app that continuously listens for signs of disease hidden in our pulse.

I Used ChatGPT’s Advanced Voice Mode. It’s Fun, and Just a Bit Creepy

The new voice feature from OpenAI for ChatGPT is often entertaining and will even do a Trump impression. It likely rolls out to all paid users this fall.

Fortnite Maker Epic Games Challenges Apple’s Dominance With New iOS App Store

The Epic Games Store gives iPhone users in the EU an alternative to Apple’s App Store for the first time.

The Olympics' Hostile Architecture Is a Preview of What's to Come

Under a bridge in Paris, a homeless encampment has been replaced with dozens of giant Lego-like bricks. Campaigners say things will likely get worse at the 2028 Games in LA.