AN UPPER EAST SIDE LIFESTYLE OF PALATIAL PROPORTIONS5 BEDROOMS 5 BATHROOMS 1 POWDER ROOM

4,258 INTERIOR SQFT (396 SQM) 133 East 73rd Street presents the rare opportunity to live in a full-service condominium of four grandly scaled residences with a full suite of private amenities. This boutique new development condominium is located in a prime Upper East Side location on the NW corner of East 73rd Street & Lexington Avenue, with only one residence per floor.

Each residence combines gracious pre-war scale with modern elegance throughout, with interiors designed by the Milanese design firm, Meroni, who took inspiration from the building's timeless design, combined with decidedly modern and contemporary interiors.

Welcomed by a private elevator foyer, this space leads to a dramatic 700-square-foot corner Great Room with seven bright eastern and southern exposures finished with beautiful hand-selected Herringbone Oak floors and stately coffered ceilings with crown molding; this space is completed by 7.5 baseboard moldings that are a classic and elegant element throughout.

The formal dining area ideally sits at the southern corner of the Great Room, with ample space comfortably accommodating 10-12 guests, ideal for formal or casual entertaining.

A large den is located adjacent to the Great Room; this versatile space can be used as a separate formal dining room or a transitional room for casual entertaining and everyday living, with ample opportunities to customize the space according to your lifestyle.

Designed by Meroni, a beautiful modern eat-in kitchen is finished in mother-of-pearl lacquer with Milanese millwork throughout, providing a stylish contrast to the decisive tones of the Frappuccino marble stone countertops, center island, backsplashes, and sinks. The setting of the stone, satin brass hardware adds a contemporary and elegant touch. This space is completed with an impressive appliance package by Sub-Zero, Miele, BlueStar, and Wolf, suitable for any professional-grade kitchen.

The Primary Bedroom suite is expansive and luxurious, measuring 20' by 19' with a separate sitting area space for lounging; a windowed Dressing Room is 19' in length and serves as the perfect transition to the Primary Bath. A sculptural freestanding tub is a centerpiece with a separate palatial steam shower with dual rain shower heads, an enclosed water closet, and a bidet accompanying a double sink custom lacquered vanity.All of the additional bedrooms are en-suite with ample light and proportions throughout. A beautiful powder room and a large windowed laundry room with a vented washer and drier complement this residence.Residents of 133 East 73rd Street enjoy a coveted New York experience. Located on the Upper East Side, known for its refined atmosphere, the stately residential neighborhood is a cultural epicenter of fine dining, designer boutiques, and internationally acclaimed museums.

The 24-hour attended lobby is a warm welcome as residents enter the building lobby, a haven from the bustling streets of Manhattan - every detail carefully chosen with district lighting, woodwork, and custom stonework forges a comforting atmosphere. Personalized services are available at all times of the day for a lifestyle of convenience and comfort. Within the boutique building is a wellness center featuring a gym, Infrared Sauna, and a private storage unit for ease of living. This is not an offering. The complete Offering Terms are in an Offering Plan available from Sponsor. File No. CD180412. Property Address: 133-137 East 73rd Street, New York, NY 10021. Sponsor: 493 Fulton LLC. Sponsor address: 571 West 183rd Street, New York, NY 10033. Equal Housing Opportunity.