Group Photos The Basic Group shot

Photo by Mike Fizer The Dirty Room Insert from Death Travels West

Bill Goffrier reports that this is John in his Wichita basement bachelor pad. In the Barn

Photo by Mike Fizer Sex Drive single master tapes

Posted on FB by Last Laugh Records A Bigger Group shot from a newspaper clipping

(Photo by...?) Photo by Patti Heffley

taken backstage after the band's first appearance at the Danceteria, New York City

Photo by Eric Cale

Early photo of the band at the Cedar in Wichita.

John Nichols

Photo by Jonathan Hope From the Albums, Etc. God Help Us

cover An amalgam of the DTW cover and that of the Embarrassment LP, featured in the CD insert for Heyday

original art by Eric Cale The cover of the Human Music Compilation

(featuring "Two Cars") The painting from the back of the Death Travels West EP

Original art by Eric Cale Side 1 of the Death Travels West Insert The Embarrassment EP

Happy Side

from an original lithography by John Boyd The Embarrassment EP

Snappy Side

from an original lithography by John Boyd Blisterpop

cover A black and white scan of the God Help Us cover art Bill Goffrier's Cover art for Heyday The Patio Set / Sex Drive single

This is an ultra-rare collectible, which has fetched prices (reportedly) of up to $200. Retrospective cassette

cover art CD cover for Bill & Woody's Saucer Unused cover art concept by John Boyd Unused cover art concept by John Boyd Autographed EP The Embarrassment EP 2020 reissue, white vinyl Flyers Photo of signed flyer posted

on a wall of Kirby's in Wichita. Flyer for performance, opening for John Cale. Graphics & Artwork Unused button art

by Bill Goffrier Unused cassette cover art

by Bill Goffrier Eric Cale Sketch

Death Travels West cover Embarrassment poster (front) Bill Goffrier, drawing of the band At The Flatiron

Bill Goffrier, drawing of the band Original concept art for the Sex Drive single

(back) Unused button art

by Bill Goffrier & Eric Cale "John" lithograph by Bill Goffrier. Henry Nelson "Ron Klaus Wrecked House" print Bill Goffrier, Big Dipper EP design sketch Bill Goffrier, Big Dipper design sketch Clippings Embo 1983 concert review Doug Hitchcock early reunion review Embo Talk Talk interview

photos by Bill Rich Review "God Help Us"

Conflict #51 Big Dipper "Slam"

Review Conflict #51 Embo reference in The Onion Fresh Sounds ad in Talk Talk

Embo Offense #1

cover

Embo article 1983

Lawrence Journal World Embo Pressbook

cover Embo Pressbook 01 Embo Pressbook 02 Embo Pressbook 03 Embo Pressbook 04 Embo Pressbook 05 Embo Pressbook 06 Embo Pressbook 07 Embo Pressbook 08 Embo Pressbook 09 Embo Lawrence reunion ticket Embo Review Conflict #48 Embo First Review New Wave Brothers review

(Embo side project band) Jim Rosencutter

Recording agreement Embo Interview, pt.01 Embo Interview, pt.02 Embo Interview, pt.03 Embo EP Review

Talk Talk Embo Interview, pt.04 Kansas City Star, Star Sunday Magazine March 5, 1978. Brett Geissmann in a punk rock fashion contest at a KC Ramones concert, shown on stage with the band. Embo 2006 Reunion

Lawrence Journal World Lawrence "The Note" Lawrence "The Note" Lawrence "The Note" Obit for John Boyd,

artist for the Embo's EP cover. Brian Drake - Found inserted in my recently procured copy of the E.P. A letter to Kiefs Offense Newsletter, 1982 Japanese Embo fan web page, translated from Japanese. Spin magazine appearance Bill Goffrier bio clipping Wichita newspaper article on Ron Klaus's wrecked house. Wichita newspaper article on Ron Klaus's wrecked house.

(Full page version) Entry on the band from the book

"Wichita Rock & Roll: 1950 - 1980" Wichita Eable/Beason article on the band from 1981 Nashville Intelligence Repotr issue 07 01 xce Repotr issue 07 02 LJWorld Underground Sounds 1982 Setlists