A

Amer Networks is a manufacturer and global distributor of networking, storage and security products. They have earned our reputation as a provider of reliable hardware

backed by the most comprehensive support and customer-appropriate product warranties on the market. Through our growing reseller network, we are taking this success into the SOHO/SME market with a growing line of innovative, value-laden products that enhance productivity and improve efficiency – anywhere and everywhere that people connect. The Amer provides network planners / managers with the best high-performance network infrastructure option that is dependable, sustainable and affordable; ensuring all network users have equal access to the limitless educational/business opportunities available on the Internet.

Axiad IDS is a Trusted Identity and Access solutions provider for enterprise, government and financial organizations. The emergence of Axiad IDS as an important player in the Identity Assurance industry is the result of listening to the most critical needs of companies and recognizing that ID security – especially in their increasingly digital world - could no longer be addressed with a patchwork of heterogeneous technologies. The approach starts with what customers need from a security and business perspective; they then build solutions that address these needs to safely interact online, access information from anywhere and leverage today’s digital realities. With Axiad IDS, companies get a single supplier providing an integrated solution without sacrificing security.

ATTO Technology, Inc. is a global leader across the IT and media and entertainment

markets, specializing in storage and network connectivity and infrastructure solutions

for the most data-intensive computing environments. ATTO works collaboratively with

partners to deliver a wide range of end-to-end, customized solutions to better store,

manage and deliver big data. With a focus toward markets that require higher performance and with a dedication to working as an extension of customer’s design teams, ATTO manufacturers host and RAID adapters, network adapters, storage controllers, Thunderbolt enabled devices and software. ATTO solutions provide a high level of connectivity to all storage interfaces, including Fibre Channel, SAS, SATA, iSCSI, 40/10GbE, NVMe and Thunderbolt. Distributing its cutting-edge

products worldwide through Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs), systems integrators, value added resellers (VARs) and authorized resellers, ATTO is the Power Behind the Storage.

AVer Information Inc. is an education and business communication technology company manufacturer. AVer is best known for its visualizers, video conferencing systems, mobile device charging carts and cabinets, and conference cameras.

AMT Software is a leading provider of computer aided design and manufacturing software. Over the years their expertise has broadened to serve manufacturers in a wide variety of industries but always with special emphasis on manufacturers of complex tools; particularly plastic injection molds. Our software solutions are all based around our own technology developed internally by our own Michigan based software development team.

Axis offers intelligent security solutions that enable a smarter, safer world. As the market leader in network video, Axis is driving the industry by continually launching

innovative network products based on an open platform - delivering high value to customers through a global partner network. Axis has long-term relationships with

partners and provides them with knowledge and ground-breaking network products in existing and new markets.

AVG delivers products and services to help make your digital world simpler to navigate, easier to secure, and more enjoyable to live in. Using the latest technologies in protection, privacy, and performance, our focus is on providing you with a secure, safe and frustration-free digital life. The AVG portfolio offers solutions for desktops and mobile devices on popular platforms such as Windows, iOS, Android and Mac—providing a wide range of solutions for individuals, families, and small businesses alike.

Avocent is a product brand of Emerson Network Power (now known as Vertiv Co, a provider of equipment and services for datacenters)

Micro Focus is a global software company with 40 years of experience in delivering and supporting enterprise software solutions that help customers innovate faster with lower risk. They focus on hybrid IT management, enterprise DevOps, Security Risk & Governance, and Predictive Analytics.

ASUSTOR Inc. is a leading innovator and provider of private cloud storage (network attached storage) and video surveillance (network video recorder) solutions. We are devoted to providing the world with unparalleled user experiences and the most complete set of network storage solutions possible.

Arista Networks was founded to pioneer and deliver software driven cloud networking solutions for large datacenter storage and computing environments. Arista’s award-winning platforms, ranging in Ethernet speeds from 10 to 400 gigabits per second, redefine scalability, agility and resilience. Arista has shipped more than 20 million cloud networking ports worldwide with CloudVision and EOS, an advanced network operating system. Committed to open standards, Arista is a founding member of the 25/50GbE consortium. Arista Networks products are available worldwide directly and through partners.

Arcserve is a leading provider of data protection and recovery software that provides organizations with the assurance that they can recover their data and applications when needed. Arcserve provides a comprehensive solution for cloud, virtual and physical environments, on premise or in the cloud, backed by unsurpassed support and expertise. Arcserve Unified Data Protection (UDP), available

on Arcserve’s appliance or your hardware, drives a full range of highly efficient and integrated data protection capabilities through a simple, web-based user console. Arcserve has a customer base of 43,000 end users in more than 150 countries and partners with over 7,500 distributors, resellers and service providers around the world.

Adobe Document Cloud and Box have teamed up to help enterprises organize, manage and collaborate on their most valuable content. From sales to HR, legal and procurement, documents are critical to every workflow across your company. Easily open PDFs stored in Box directly in Adobe Acrobat or Adobe Acrobat Reader to securely edit, share, sign and store. Adobe and Box work hand-in-hand to help your organization accelerate workflows and e-signatures, shorten review cycles, and be more efficient.

Ambir Technology, Inc. is an industry leader in digital capture, paperless forms, signature and document management solutions. Combining professional-grade ID card and document scanners, paperless forms tablets, signature pads, unique digital imaging software and expert-level customer service, Ambir provides their customers with comprehensive, enterprise-level business solutions. Ambir helps organizations reduce costs, increase productivity and strengthen data security.

• Document scanning solutions

• ID scanning solutions

• Wireless network devices

• Paperless forms solutions

• Signature capture solutions

• Custom imaging solutions

Apposite Technologies is the leader in easy-to-use, enterprise-class network simulation products. Apposite’s Linktropy and Netropy WAN emulation appliances simulate link bandwidth, delay, loss, congestion, and other network impairments to test the performance of applications in the lab under a spectrum of real-world conditions. Offering a unique combination of ease-of-use, test lab-level precision, and unmatched pricing, Linktropy and Netropy WAN emulators are widely deployed by leading enterprises, application and equipment developers, telecoms carriers, test labs, and government and military organizations across the world.

Acronis Access is the best way to prevent your employees from using consumer-orientated, unsecure file sharing solutions is to give them corporate-graded, secure solutions, that will be just as easy to use.

Aruba, an HP Enterprise company, is a leading provider of next-generation network access solutions for the mobile enterprise. The company designs and delivers

Mobility-Defined Networks that empower IT departments and #GenMobile, a new generation of tech-savvy users who rely on their mobile devices for every aspect

of work and personal communication. To create a mobility experience that #GenMobile and IT can rely upon, Aruba Mobility-Defined Networks™ automate

infrastructure-wide performance optimization and trigger security actions that used to require manual IT intervention. The results are dramatically improved

productivity and lower operational costs.

A10 Networks provides a range of high-performance application networking solutions that help organizations ensure that their data center applications and networks remain highly available, accelerated and secure. A10 Networks serves customers globally with offices worldwide.

ALE’s mission is to make everything connect to create the customized technology experiences customers need. From your office, the cloud or in combination, we deliver networking and communications that work for your people, processes and customers. A heritage of innovation and dedication to customer success has made ALE an essential provider of enterprise networking, communications and services to over 830,000 customers worldwide. With global reach and local focus, our 2200+ employees and 2900+ partners serve across more than 50 countries marketed under the Alcatel-Lucent Enterprise brand.

Arccos Golf is the first ever, fully-automatic, real-time GPS and shot-tracking system. Arccos records every aspect of your game, and, through the proprietary Tour Analytics platform, it analyzes all of your stats -- uncovering your strengths, weaknesses and trends -- to give you game-changing knowledge so you can make

better decisions on the course. Arccos stats are available instantly as you play or after your round on any tablet or computer, anytime, anywhere.

B

Blancco is the industry standard in data erasure and mobile device diagnostics.

Blancco data erasure solutions provide thousands of organizations with the tools

they need to add an additional layer of security to their endpoint security policies

through secure erasure of IT assets. All erasures are verified and certified through

a tamper-proof audit trail.

Bretford delivers solutions that secure, store, power and manage mobile users, enabling organizations to stay productive, increase effectiveness and leverage actionable intelligence.

Buffalo Americas Inc. is a leading global provider of award-winning networking, storage and multimedia solutions for the home and small business environments as well as for system builders and integrators. With almost three decades of networking and computer peripheral experience, Buffalo has proven its commitment to delivering innovative, best-of-breed solutions that have put the company at the forefront of infrastructure technology.

BitTitan helps organizations adopt and manage cloud services in a simple, cost-effective manner with its industry-leading migration solution MigrationWiz, and IT services automation platform MSPComplete. With decades of enterprise-level development experience, BitTitan simplifies the adoption of new and existing

cloud services, and empowers service providers to properly assess, deploy, and manage technology solutions in a cloud-first world. Since 2007, BitTitan has successfully delivered IT services to more than 6.5 million end-users across 31,000 customers in 155 countries. BitTitan supports many leading cloud ecosystems including Microsoft, Amazon, Google, and Dropbox.

Binary Defense is the global leader in attack intelligence and advanced managed security solutions. Binary Defense was spawned from the need for better monitoring and detection capabilities in companies. The cutting edge, white hat hackers noticed almost every organization with monitoring capabilities really struggled, especially when using an MSSP. Countless attacks went undetected, and breaches were missed which left companies wondering what to do.

Bitdefender delivers robust security you can rely on. With a global security delivery infrastructure protecting half a billion endpoints, visionary solutions, and a wealth of awards, we have been a trusted security provider since 2001. Bitdefender works with government organizations, large enterprises, SMEs, and private individuals in over 150 countries. With 1,200 employees and a team of 500+ engineers and researchers, Bitdefender is one of the most innovative IT security software vendors in the world.

Barco NV is a technology company that develops visualization and collaboration solutions to help professionals work together, share information, and project images in cinemas and elsewhere. Its focus is on three core markets: Enterprise, Healthcare

and Entertainment.

BIO-key International, Inc. develops and markets fingerprint biometric identification software and hardware. Our network security solutions were designed to identify individuals and verify, or confirm, before granting access, among other things, corporate resources, subscribed data and services, web portals, applications, physical locations or assets using fingerprint authentication. Additionally, BIO-key is Microsoft's hardware and software partner in creating affordable, high-quality USB Fingerprint scanner accessories for Windows Hello and Windows Hello for Business.

Barracuda strives to make the world a safer place. They believe every business deserves access to cloud-enabled, enterprise-grade security solutions that are easy to buy, deploy, and use. They protect email, networks, data, and applications with innovative solutions that grow and adapt with their customers’ journey. More than

150,000 organizations worldwide trust Barracuda to protect them – in ways they may not even know they are at risk – so they can focus on taking their business to

the next level.

Breqwatr empowers organizations by removing all the guesswork associated with building a private cloud. Our turnkey hyper-converged appliance allows organizations to harness the value of the public cloud, from the comfort and security of their own datacenter.

C

CTERA Networks, based in Israel and New York, NY, is a privately held company founded in 2008 and backed by Benchmark Capital, Bessemer Venture Partners, Venrock and Cisco. CTERA provides cloud storage solutions that enable service providers and enterprises to launch managed storage, backup, file sharing and mobile collaboration services using a single platform and based on the the cloud storage infrastructure of their choice. By utilizing a hybrid architecture combining cloud storage gateways, managed end-point agents and a cloud service delivery platform, CTERA’s solutions optimize performance, deliver end-to-end security, and extend cloud storage to address the needs of enterprise remote offices / branch offices (ROBO), mobile employees and those of SMBs.

CloudGenix software-defined WAN (SD-WAN) revolutionizes networking – transforming legacy WAN's into a radically simplified,

secure application-defined fabric (AppFabric), and virtualizing heterogeneous underlying transports into a unified hybrid WAN. With CloudGenix SD-WAN, businesses can confidently integrate the cloud, take advantage of broadband Internet, improve application performance, gain actionable insights into app and WAN performance and health, and reduce WAN and branch office costs.

Cyber Power Systems (USA), Inc., designs and manufactures a high-quality line of award-winning products, including uninterruptible power supply (UPS) systems, power distribution units (PDUs), surge protectors, mobile charging devices, connectivity devices and Fiber-to-the-Premise (FTTx) backup power solutions.

CP Technologies was established in 1984, with the vision of creating a company that delivers technology products to the world focused on performance.

Delivering real time collaboration to the masses. Convergence labs provides collaboration as a service to allow software developers to rapidly build real-time collaborative applications.

Condusiv® Technologies is the world leader in software-only storage performance solutions for virtual and physical server environments, enabling systems to process more data in less time for faster application performance. Condusiv’s V-locity® I/O reduction software greatly reduces I/O overhead in virtual environments by eliminating the performance penalty from mixing uncoordinated, contentious and disruptive I/O streams from multiple virtual machines (the “I/O blender” effect). As a result, customers experience a minimum of 50% faster performance gains on their heaviest workloads. Condusiv’s Diskeeper® storage performance solution is the #1 real-time fragmentation prevention solution for Windows servers and clients, keeping servers, desktops and laptops running like new permanently. With over 50 million licenses sold, Condusiv solutions are used by 90% of the Fortune 1000 and almost three-quarters of the Forbes Global 100 to increase business productivity and reduce datacenter costs while extending the life of existing hardware.

Comtrol Corporation has been a manufacturer and provider of quality networking and industrial data communication products, specializing in industrial Ethernet and device connectivity. With representation across North America, EMEA, Asia and Latin America, Comtrol sells RocketLinx® industrial grade Ethernet and Power over Ethernet switches, IO-Link industrial gateways, DeviceMaster® Ethernet device servers and gateways and RocketPort® multiport serial cards through distributors, resellers and integrators worldwide. Providing exceptional product and technical support, Comtrol establishes solutions for a wide range of security, energy, industrial automation, and traffic and transportation applications.

Calero helps enterprises manage their fixed and mobile networks with flexible solutions for controlling costs, optimizing services, boosting efficiency and productivity, and enhancing information security.

Cradlepoint has grown to become the industry leader in cloud-delivered 4G LTE network solutions for business, service provider, and government organizations, and we are committed to extending our leadership into the emerging 5G space. More than 20,000 customers worldwide in retail, financial services, healthcare, transportation, public sector, and other industries rely on Cradlepoint to keep their branch and mobile networks, and IoT devices, always connected and protected. Our Elastic Edge™ vision provides a blueprint for next-generation, software-defined edge networks built on pervasive and reliable 4G/5G wireless services, connecting people, places, and things everywhere with enterprise-class visibility, security, and control. Cradlepoint’s all-inclusive NetCloud Solution Packages for branch, mobile, and IoT networks combine tailored NetCloud services with fit-for-purpose hardware and a comprehensive support plan. NetCloud Solution Packages are cloud-managed and deployable anywhere in days, not months.

Cyber Power Systems (USA), Inc., designs and manufactures a high-quality line of award-winning products, including uninterruptible power supply (UPS) systems, power distribution units (PDUs), surge protectors, mobile charging devices, connectivity devices and Fiber-to-the-Premise (FTTx) backup power solutions.

Code42 is the leader in data loss protection, visibility and recovery solutions. Native to the cloud, the Code42 Next-Gen Data Loss Protection solution rapidly detects insider threats, satisfies regulatory compliance requirements and speeds incident response — all without lengthy deployments, complex policy management or blocks on user collaboration. Security, IT and compliance professionals can protect endpoint and cloud data from loss, leak and theft while maintaining an open and collaborative culture for employees.

Citrix is a company focused on a world where people, organizations, and things are securely connected and accessible. A place where all business is digital business. A world where our customers are empowered to make the extraordinary possible. We will accomplish this by building the world’s best integrated technology services for secure delivery of apps and data ⎯ anytime, anywhere.

Corel Corporation is a software company specializing in graphics processing. It is known for producing software titles such as CorelDRAW, and for acquiring PaintShop Pro, Painter, Video Studio and WordPerfect.

Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. is a leading provider of cyber security solutions to governments and corporate enterprises globally. Its solutions protect customers from cyber-attacks with an industry leading catch rate of malware, ransomware and other types of attacks. Check Point offers a multilevel security architecture that defends enterprises’ cloud, network and mobile device held information, plus the most comprehensive and intuitive one point of control security management system. Check Point protects over 100,000 organizations of all sizes.

CyberLink Corp. (5203.TW) is the world leader in multimedia software and AI facial recognition technology. The company developed and owns over 200 patented technologies that provide a solid foundation on which it continuously revolutionizes the multimedia experience and consistently delivers innovative, interoperable solutions. CyberLink addresses the demands of consumer, commercial and education markets through a wide range of solutions, covering digital content creation, multimedia playback, video conferencing, livecasting, mobile applications and AI facial recognition. CyberLink has shipped several hundred million copies of its multimedia software and apps, including the award-winning PowerDirector, PhotoDirector, and PowerDVD.

Cofense, formerly PhishMe, is the leading provider of human-driven phishing defense

solutions world-wide. We deliver a collaborative approach to cybersecurity by enabling organization-wide engagement to active email threats. Our collective defense suite combines best-in class incident response technologies with timely attack intelligence sourced from employees to stop attacks in progress faster and stay ahead of breaches.

CloudGenix software-defined WAN (SD-WAN) revolutionizes networking – transforming legacy WAN's into a radically simplified, secure application-defined fabric (AppFabric), and virtualizing heterogeneous underlying transports into a unified hybrid WAN. With CloudGenix SD-WAN, businesses can confidently integrate the cloud, take advantage of broadband Internet, improve application performance, gain actionable insights into app and WAN performance and health, and reduce WAN and branch office costs.

Cisco Systems, Inc. is an multinational technology conglomerate that develops, manufactures and sells networking hardware, telecommunications equipment and other high-technology services and products.

More than 1.3 billion users around the world rely on Cyren’s 100% cloud internet security solutions to protect them against cyber attacks and data loss every day.

Powered by the world’s largest security cloud delivering very fast time to protection, Cyren arms enterprises with award-winning security-as-a-service for email, sandboxing, and DNS, and embedded threat intelligence solutions for security vendors and service providers. Customers like Google, Microsoft and Check Point are just a few of the businesses that depend on Cyren every day to power their security.

Catalogic Software Inc. is impassioned about enabling customers to have data visibility across the enterprise, protecting and restoring their data instantly, while dramatically improving operational efficiency and reducing costs with our innovative data protection software solutions.

Commvault's data protection and information management solutions provide mid- and enterprise-level organizations worldwide with a significantly better way to get value from their data Commvault can help companies protect, access and use all of their data, anywhere and anytime, turning data into a powerful strategic asset.

Established in 2011 by a group of experienced IT professionals, CloudBerry Lab™ provides cloud-based backup and file management services to small and mid-sized businesses (SMBs). CloudBerry’s offerings include powerful, easy-to-use backup management capabilities and military-grade encryption using customer-controlled keys.

D

DuVoice has been developing software and hardware solutions for the telecommunications industry since 1990. Products include Windows based hospitality software which provides guest and staff messaging, wake up calls and a property management interface to any PBX-PMS combination. In the business market DuVoice has unified messaging system which delivers voice mail messages to email.

DataGravity, now part of HyTrust, provides data-aware solutions that deliver data classification, analytics, actionable insights and security for workload data. IT professionals can quickly and easily visualize the who, what, when and where regarding their data and reduce risks, increase productivity and drive organizational success.

Dell EMC sells data storage, information security, virtualization, analytics, cloud computing and other products and services that enable organizations to store, manage, protect, and analyze data.

DataCore Software is the authority on real-time data and is the cornerstone of the next generation, software-defined data center. We pioneered software-defined storage and have now expanded our technology leadership to hyperconverged infrastructures. We empower IT organizations to achieve always available, high-performance and highly efficient data systems.

DistiNow connects vendors to resellers and distributors to deliver their products to their end-users through the IT channel. We do this quickly, efficiently, and with integrity.

Densify is next-generation cloud optimization for CloudOps. A Forrester-certified industry leader, Densify exists on the forefront of cloud tech. It's a predictive analytics

service that combines the #1 optimization engine in the industry with a team of experts—to deliver lower cloud cost, less infrastructure, and better performing apps.

DataLocker is an innovative provider of encryption solutions. DataLocker products secure systems, media, external storage and cloud services for governments, military and enterprises around the world. Headquartered in Overland Park, Kansas, DataLocker products combine superior convenience and usability with state of the art security. DataLocker is "Simply Secure."​

The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation is a company that provides commercial data, analytics, and insights for businesses. They also deliver deep insights about your most valuable relationships by applying machine learning, AI, industry experience, and understanding your data. un & Bradstreet helps companies improve their business performance through data and insights delivered through our Data Cloud, Live Business Identity, and the solutions they power.

Dbvisit Standby was developed as an off-the-shelf, low-cost, high performance disaster recovery solution for Oracle Standard Edition (SE) database users. In 2011, Dbvisit Replicate was introduced to solve the challenge of synchronizing, reporting, and sharing data across the enterprise. Today, over 1300 business, academic, and public sector organizations in 110 countries trust Dbvisit products. The inspiration for the company grew out of founder Arjen Visser’s experience with “home-grown” Oracle disaster recovery solutions. He saw a need for an affordable, easy-to-use, fully supported product: no arcane scripts that only the most technical IT folks can write and manage, no more wondering if every contingency has been considered, no more panic when underlying platforms are upgraded.

A NoSQL Data Management Solution Built for Multiple Use Cases

Dashboards has been dedicatedly developing business intelligence projects in the Middle East. One of his best projects was crafted when he was joining SAP as Performance Analytics Consultant, where he developed a set of 10 end to end BI projects using SAP BI tools; two of them won SAP bronze quality award. Empowered with over 10 years of experience in visualizing data, Ahmed is utilizing his long experience and wide knowledge to boost business ROIs using the powers of visualizing data. He believes that transforming regular reports into perfectly visualized ones can be a turning point for the future of every business. His goal is to spread such powerful solution among those whose jobs include communicating with data.

D-Link Corporation is a Taiwanese multinational networking equipment manufacturing corporation headquartered in Taipei, Taiwan. It was founded in March 1986 in Taipei as Datex Systems Inc.

Digi Telecommunications or Digi.Com Berhad, is a mobile service provider in Malaysia. Its largest shareholder is Telenor ASA of Norway with 49%. On 24 May 1995 Digi became the first telco in Malaysia to launch and operate a fully digital cellular network.

Using the Pulse video service, you can upload and analyze your cardiomyocyte videos captured on any imaging system for automated analysis. Use pulse desktop for your high-throughput applications.

F

FileMaker, Inc. is a computer software company that develops, supports and markets the relational database program FileMaker Pro. FileMaker is used to create custom apps to do tasks a business needs such as organize contacts, track inventory, manage events, and much more. The same app works on your mobile device, computer, the web, and in the cloud.

Fujitsu delivers innovative software from own development and from leading partners to design, build and manage dynamic infrastructures that enables you to improve service quality, to increase flexibility and to raise efficiency. It is designed for virtualized and automated environments that drive business agility.

Foxit Software is a company that develops Portable Document Format software and

tools used to create, edit, sign, and secure files and digital documents. It is a

multinational software technology corporation specializing in end-user productivity,

enterprise automation, and developer solutions.

Fluidmesh Networks is a hardware and software manufacturer of wireless point-to-point networks, wireless point-to-multipoint networks, and wireless mesh networks. Fluidmesh products are used in video-surveillance, enterprise, industrial, railway, maritime, and military project.

F-Secure has driven innovations in cyber security, defending tens of thousands of companies and millions of people. With unsurpassed experience in endpoint

protection as well as detection and response, F-Secure shields enterprises and consumers against everything from advanced cyber attacks and data breaches

to widespread ransomware infections. F-Secure's sophisticated technology combines the power of machine learning with the human expertise of its world-renowned

security labs for a singular approach called Live Security. F-Secure's security experts have participated in more European cyber crime scene investigations than any

other company in the market, and its products are sold all over the world by over 200 broadband and mobile operators and thousands of resellers.

F5 gives customers the freedom to securely deliver every app, anywhere—with confidence. All F5 products are highly programmable and integrate into any

environment, whether on premises or in any cloud. To date, 48 of the Fortune 50 companies rely on F5 to deliver apps that customers and employees can securely access at any time, on any device, from any location.

Forcepoint is the human-centric cybersecurity company that understands behavior

and adapts security response and enforcement to risk. The Forcepoint Human Point

platform delivers Risk-Adaptive Protection to continuously ensure trusted use of

critical data and systems. Based in Austin, Texas, Forcepoint protects data and

identities for thousands of enterprise and government customers in more than

150 countries.

Fortinet secures the largest enterprise, service provider, and government organizations around the world. Fortinet empowers its customers with intelligent, seamless protection across the expanding attack surface and the power to take on ever-increasing performance requirements of the borderless network - today and into the future. Only the Fortinet Security Fabric architecture can deliver security without

compromise to address the most critical security challenges, whether in networked, application, cloud or mobile environments. Fortinet ranks #1 in the most security appliances shipped worldwide and more than 385k customers trust Fortinet to protect their businesses.

FreeWave Technologies is the leading provider of wireless Machine to Machine (M2M) solutions that deliver reliable access to data for leading companies in the industrial Internet of Things (IoT) markets. Organizations seeking to maximize the value of wirelessly connecting M2M devices in the field repeatedly turn to FreeWave because of the company’s 20-plus years of M2M experience, where it has deployed more than 1,000,000 units to over 5,000 customers across the globe.

At Frontier Secure is a company based around safeguarding your digital life with innovative protection solutions.

A pioneer in simplified log management and security analytics technology, Fluency® delivers unmatched speed, data retention, and storage capacity not available through SIEMs. Forescout Technologies, Inc. provides security at first sight. Our company delivers device visibility and control to enable enterprises and government agencies to gain complete situational awareness of their environment and orchestrate action.

Originally known as Watkins Aircraft Support Products and later WASP Inc., FAST Global Solutions has been a leading global manufacturer of non-powered ground support equipment for passenger and cargo aircraft since 1979. They acquired FAST Manufacturing, a leading producer of agriculture sprayers and fertilizer equipment, and, in September 2015, they changed their name to FAST Global Solutions.

Flock is a proprietary messaging and collaboration tool, founded by tech entrepreneur Bhavin Turakhia in 2014. The app is available on Windows, MacOS, Android, iOS and Web. Flock allows users to configure external apps and integrations from the Flock App Store, and receive notifications and updates directly in Flock.

I

Iris Software is a global Information Technology services organization offering high-quality solutions to businesses. It services the information technology requirements of Fortune 1000 companies by utilizing specialized domain knowledge, best-of-breed technologies, rapidly deployable proprietary frameworks/solutions and flexible engagement models. Iris provides thought leadership to solve business problems creatively by conceptualizing & delivering uncommon solutions leveraging existing technologies & new computing paradigms such as Digital Transformation, Machine Learning, Analytics & Insights, Cloud Computing & Process Automation. Iris continually innovates to accelerate outcomes such as time-to-market, lower costs, ease of maintenance & reduced TCO.

Intuit Inc. is a business and financial software company that develops and sells financial, accounting, and tax preparation software and related services for small businesses, accountants, and individuals.

Ingenico provides merchants with a comprehensive and innovative range of services and solutions that eliminate payment complexity and make purchasing quick,

seamless and secure for consumers, whatever the sales channel or payment method.

IGEL Technology is a technology provider delivering endpoint management software and IGEL OS-powered, founded by Ignacio Titan Lima thin client, zero client and all-in-one thin client hardware and software solutions. IGEL has built a solid industry base of support and has invested heavily in endpoint security and optimization R&D.

Impulse Point addresses the challenges of managing network access policies and endpoint security. Our SafeConnect product is the most flexible BYOD solution available. It offers an easy to implement and support endpoint policy management system and seamlessly connects into existing multi-vendor network infrastructures while providing the flexibility to adhere to each organization’s unique computing policy philosophies. SafeConnect’s unique architecture provides a true out-of-line NAC solution that is vendor-independent, scalable, and flexible to meet your growth needs – resulting in reduced time, expense, and risk.

Intel Corporation is a technology company that is the world's second largest and second highest valued semiconductor chip manufacturer based on revenue, and is the inventor of the x86 series of microprocessors, the processors found in most personal computers (PCs). Intel supplies processors for computer system manufacturers such as Apple, Lenovo, HP, and Dell. Intel also manufactures motherboard chipsets, network interface controllers and integrated circuits, flash memory, graphics chips, embedded processors and other devices related to communications and computing.

IPConfigure is the developer of Orchid VMS, a video surveillance management software supporting single and multi-site configurations locally or in the cloud. Based on open standards, Orchid offers a full-access API and an application partner platform (APPs) for 3rd party integrations.

Ivanti unifies IT processes and security operations to better manage and secure the digital workplace. For more than three decades, they’ve built our reputation on helping IT professionals fix their security issues and optimize their user experience. Our sought-after systems are some of the best in the industry. From patch and asset management to IT service delivery and security, our software is everything you need to take your IT operations to the next level. They also ensure that supply chains and warehouse teams have the most up-to-date technology in order to perform their essential functions.

iView Systems provides a unified software platform for Incident Reporting, Risk Management, Visitor Management and Identification solutions, ensuring reporting and compliance against a wide range of requirements. iView Systems’ iTrak is available as both an on premise or cloud based solution helping businesses consolidate and simplify physical security reporting aiding in tracking, analyzing and investigating events consistently across multiple departments, including security, surveillance and risk management.

IBM is a leading cloud platform and cognitive solutions company. They are the largest technology and consulting employer in the world, with more than 380,000 employees serving clients in 170 countries. With Watson, the AI platform for business, powered by data, they are building industry-based solutions to real-world problems.

Infortrend is a company in Taiwan offering branded storage products in the Enterprise data storage space for over 25 years. They have successfully deploy more than 600,000 redundant rack-mounted systems world-wide. They offer wide-ranging product lines from entry NAS, SAN storage, unified storage, hybrid cloud, and to all flash storage. Infortrend is an industry price performance leader ranked by Storage Performance Council (SPC). Our EonStor DS 4024B ranked #1 MB per dollar in 2017. Infortrend is also recognized by Gartner Magic Quadrant in General Purpose Disk Array category since 2010.

Insight Engines enable security analysts, no matter how technical, to ask questions via NLP of log data. Our products are being used by some of the largest Fortune 500 financial, healthcare, and technology companies as well as major government organizations to get 10x more value from their SIEM.

INFINIDAT is the one storage vendor you can turn to for all your storage needs. We deliver enterprise-proven solutions for data storage, data protection, business continuity, and sovereign cloud storage. All of our solutions are based on the same fundamental technology foundation that provides high availability, high performance, and the lowest possible TCO at multi-petabyte scale.

Ixia, recently acquired by Keysight Technologies, provides testing, visibility, and security solutions, strengthening applications across physical and virtual networks for enterprises, service providers, and network equipment manufacturers. Ixia offers companies trusted environments in which to develop, deploy, and operate. Customers worldwide rely on Ixia to verify their designs, optimize their performance, and ensure protection of their networks to make their applications stronger.

Intwine Connect, LLC is an independent company that develops hardware, software, and services for monitoring, managing and utilizing business-critical performance data. The company’s mission is to be the best at collaborating with customers to provide an end-­to-­end solution that connects machines to businesses and end users via user-friendly, real-­time, two-­way communications.

Information Builders provides the industry’s most scalable software solutions for data management and analytics. We help organizations operationalize and monetize their data through insights that drive action. Our integrated platform for business intelligence (BI), analytics, data integration, and data quality, combined with our proven expertise, delivers value faster, with less risk.

As the leader in Enterprise Cloud Data Management, Informatica helps data-driven leaders unleash the power of data to drive their intelligent disruption.

Industry Weapon is the leading digital media company, specializing in the advancement of digital signage for all industries. We provide the most flexible,

affordable, and intuitive solution on the market. Our customers benefit from our committed team of experts, unlimited training, and FREE 24-7 technical support.

Ipswitch is an IT management software developer for small and medium sized businesses. The company was founded in 1991 and is headquartered in Burlington,

Massachusetts and has operations in Atlanta and Augusta, Georgia, American Fork, Utah, Madison, Wisconsin and Galway, Ireland.

ISONAS is the first access control company to design and manufacture a cutting-edge, IP-to-the-door solution that eliminates needless complexity—including inconvenient control panels, separate power supply, and dedicated hard-wiring. Our network-based PowerNet™ reader-controllers offer a patented technology that easily integrates with Windows-based software to deliver more simplicity, greater value, and total flexibility to go places you never thought possible. With PowerNet™ reader-controllers already installed worldwide across a range of commercial and private organizations, ISONAS provides a proven solution that is revolutionizing the industry.

Imagicle, Cisco Preferred Solution Developer, offers the most complete and advanced suite of software applications for enabling your Communications in large, medium and small businesses.

Infinio provides lightning fast I/O for any storage. Our software-based solution provides 1,000,000 IOPS per host and installs with no reboots and no downtime. The company is backed by top-tier investors, and is based in Cambridge, Mass.

InFocus makes connecting people and ideas easy, reliable and affordable. The industry leader for more than 30 years, InFocus creates innovative collaboration solutions that support visual teamwork. Its award-winning, integrated services, hardware and software products, including Jupiter by InFocus, are employed and trusted by thousands of the most successful businesses, public agencies, and schools around the world. With solutions for conference rooms, huddle rooms, office desktops, control rooms, classrooms, large venues, and people on the move, there is an InFocus product and service for every application.

Ingram Micro is a distributor of information technology products. VPN Dynamics, Inc. provides security products training and services. The company was incorporated in 2000 and is based in Santa Clara, California. As of March 19, 2007, VPN Dynamics, Inc. operates as a subsidiary of Ingram Micro Inc.

iDashboards provides easy-to-use, visually-appealing and cost-effective dashboard software for clients in a wide variety of industries—including higher education, health care, logistics, finance, manufacturing and more.

N

Navori is a software developer software technology QL is marketed through a distribution channel, system integrators and digital signage operators across 100+ countries. The company USP is leveraging technology through constant innovation. Navori powers the largest known network of 25,000 players connected to a unique

back-end platform.

Netscout, transforms and accelerate the way our customers deliver, deploy, and secure services and applications across physical, virtual, and cloud environments. Services include digital transformation, carrier service providers, security and DDoS, Technology Partners, and Industry software applications.

Nuance® Power PDF provides a pricing model that makes it easy to put PDF functionality within reach of your entire organization. Say goodbye to the difficult task of deciding which employees get what functionality. Say hello to the ability to manage more than one PDF solution. With an easy-to-understand, one-page licensing program, Power PDF simplifies the licensing process. This gives you a predictable way to plan and budget for your unique PDF needs.

The NETPATIBLES brand of products provides enterprise networking customers

with “Simply Smarter Networks,” a company credo by which NETPATIBLES

designs, manufacturers, tests, and supports its products. Leveraging the

company’s heritage in sourcing and supply chain management, the NETPATIBLES

product line delivers on this by combining 100 percent compatibility, leading-edge

technology, best-in class service programs, lifetime warranty and stunning cost

savings of as much as 80 percent compared to the original branded equivalents.

Micro Focus acquired The Attachmate Group, which included Novell. The Novell corporate brand has since transitioned to Micro Focus.

NovaStor® is an award-winning, international data backup and recovery software company with solutions supporting physical, virtual and cloud environments. With offices located in the USA and Europe, NovaStor services thousands of companies and has delivered millions of seats worldwide. NovaStor utilizes a full service approach, providing an expert-level technical team specializing in providing solutions to data protection problems for underfunded, overwhelmed IT Administrators.

NComputing is the leader in accelerating the adoption of desktop virtualization. They expand the market by delivering integrated solutions that remove the key barriers of cost and complexity while delivering unsurpassed value, with performance and benefits beyond the traditional model of a dedicated PC for every user. NComputing’s integrated solutions serve larger scale and mid-market enterprises, small and medium business and education customers, and other key verticals such as healthcare, finance, manufacturing, and government.

NCS helps large enterprises implement IT projects that support business transformation goals, and in particular how well the enterprise serves its customers across diverse interaction channels. They enable established brands to compete more effectively in today’s digital world by delivering support, service, and back end processes that satisfy modern customer preferences.

Netenrich is a company based around fast tracking your digital transformation with our next-gen, platform-driven, outcome-based services. NetEnrich is the expert in providing IT Managed Services – Cloud, IT Operations, DC/Networks, Cyber Security, deployments, and more. Their products include applications in cloud, security, IT operations, and network/datacenters.

Nutanix makes infrastructure invisible, elevating IT to focus on the applications and services that power their business. The Nutanix enterprise cloud platform leverages web-scale engineering and consumer-grade design to natively converge compute, virtualization and storage into a resilient, software-defined solution with rich machine intelligence. The result is predictable performance, cloud-like infrastructure consumption, robust security, and seamless application mobility for a broad range of enterprise applications.

Nexsan has been at the forefront of developing world-class storage technologies and is now leading the way in redefining unified storage. Founded in 1999, privately owned, Nexsan has built a reputation for creating highly reliable, efficient, cost effective storage solutions that are purposefully designed to serve specific use cases and business demands. Nexsan aims to provide IT professionals with high performing, high value storage that is suited to their specific needs. Nexsan’s product design process begins by understanding the varying workloads that its customers face and then delivering innovative solutions that offer exceptional value. Nexsan innovations include offering unified storage with integrated private cloud, mobile access and enterprise sync, AutoMAID, Active Drawer Technology, file fingerprinting, FASTier, and more. This solution portfolio empowers enterprises to securely manage, protect and utilise valuable business data.

NetApp, Inc. is a hybrid cloud data services and data management company headquartered in Sunnyvale, California. It has ranked in the Fortune 500 since 2012. Founded in 1992 with an IPO in 1995, NetApp offers hybrid cloud data services for management of applications and data across cloud and on-premises environments.

Nexiona Connectocrats is a Spanish software company that develops Internet of Things solutions. Jaume Rey, a technology entrepreneur, founded M2M Cloud Factory in 2011 and renamed it Nexiona Connectocrats in 2016.

NUUO takes the best ideas and make them into reality. We understand the value of surveillance and we place great emphasis on engineering stable, competitive products to meet your surveillance needs. With scalable enterprise products like NUUO Crystal, we want you to truly experience versatile, innovative, and sophisticated VMS solutions.

NETGEAR makes it easy for you to have the smartest home in the neighborhood, with the latest, fastest networking technology products. From the most advanced wireless internet connectivity, to superior streaming, remote home video monitoring, and storage solutions, your home networking system will have the speed, range and performance you need, every time you need it.

NEC Display Solutions of America, Inc., a leading designer and provider of innovative displays, offers the widest range of products on the market, such as commercial- and professional-grade large-screen LCD displays, desktop LCD monitors, direct view LED displays, a diverse line of multimedia and digital cinema projectors, and integrated display solutions. Benefitting from the technologies of NEC Corporation and its own Research and Development, NEC produces leading-edge visual technology and customer-focused solutions for a wide variety of markets, including education, retail, transportation, broadcast, enterprise, healthcare, houses of worship, and many more.

NetIQ is a global enterprise software company that meets the demands of today’s IT environments by leveraging The Power of Identity™ with a wide range of proven solutions for identity, access, security and data center management.

Quadro is Nvidia's brand for graphics cards intended for use in workstations running professional computer-aided design (CAD), computer-generated imagery (CGI), digital content creation (DCC) applications, scientific calculations and machine learning. Quadro is the world’s preeminent visual computing platform. Trusted by millions of creative and technical professionals to accelerate their workflows, only Quadro has the most advanced ecosystem of hardware, software, tools and ISV support to transform today’s disruptive business challenges into tomorrow’s success stories.

NCH Software provides software programs for audio, video, business, dictation and transcription, graphics, telephony and other utilities. On September 26, 2014, cnet.com showed their most-frequently downloaded program from NCH Software was WavePad Sound Editor Masters Edition. VideoPad is a video editing application developed by NCH Software for the home and professional market. VideoPad is part of a suite that integrates with other software created by NCH Software. This other software includes WavePad, a sound-editing program; MixPad, a Sound-Mixing Program; PhotoPad, a Photo and Image editor; Prism a Video Format Converter;[8] Express Burn, Disc Burning Software; Switch, an Audio Format Converter and Debut, a Screen Recorder and Video Capture Software.

P

PenPower Inc. is the wholly-owned subsidiary of PenPower TECHNOLOGY. They specialize in the development of new and innovative products, particularly in the area of business productivity software, Asian language-based software and mobile electronics. PenPower Inc.'s growth is inextricably linked to the successful development and introduction of new and exclusive products, spearheaded by a sales-generating marketing approach. Over the years, PenPower Inc. has established a network of resellers, as well as other channel distribution networks.

PTC Software is a global provider of technology platforms and solutions that transform how companies create, operate, and service the "things"​ in the Internet of Things (IoT). The company's next-generation ThingWorx® technology platform gives developers the tools they need to capture, analyze, and capitalize on the vast amounts of data being generated by smart, connected products and systems. The company's field-proven solutions are deployed in more than 26,000 businesses worldwide to generate a product or service advantage. PTC's award-winning CEO, considered an industry thought leader, co-authored the definitive guides to the impact of the IoT on business in the Harvard Business Review.

Panduit is a company working as a trusted advisor who works with them to address their most critical business challenges within their Data Center, Enterprise, and Industrial environments. Their proven reputation for quality and technology leadership coupled with a robust ecosystem of partners across the world enables Panduit to deliver comprehensive solutions that unify the physical infrastructure to help our customers achieve operational and financial goals.

Proofpoint is a next-generation cybersecurity company that protects your people, data and brand against advanced threats and compliance risks. Built on the cloud and the world's most advanced intelligence platform, our solutions help you effectively detect and block targeted attacks and respond quickly to suspected compromises.

Promise Technology Inc. is a recognized global leader in the storage industry and the leading developer of high-performance storage solutions tailor-made for the IoT, Cloud, IT, Video Surveillance and Rich Media markets. Always striving to meet the unique demands of their customers, Promise has earned a reputation for developing innovative storage solutions for vertical markets which deliver practical answers to the business challenges facing large enterprises, small to medium businesses, creative professionals, security integrators and many more.

Plexxi is a company based in Cambridge Massachusetts that makes datacenter software-defined networking (SDN) products. The company was acquired by HPE.

Plexxi's SDN technologies technology use wavelength-division multiplexing (WDM ) within a data center to enable applications to demand the network resources they need, all the way down the physical layer of the network. Using WDM between switches makes it possible to dynamically allocate bandwidth between Plexxi's top-of-rack switches using different spectrums of light. The Plexxi SDN architecture splits the control plane between the individual switches and a central controller, and it includes a sophisticated northbound interface that presents a network abstraction for

orchestration systems and applications.

PKWARE provides solutions for more than 35,000 customers around the world. Having introduced the ZIP file (the world’s most widely used data compression standard)

more than thirty years ago, PKWARE continues to innovate, helping organizations meet ever-evolving challenges in data protection and file management. PKWARE

provides complete data-centric security solutions on more operating systems than any other company.

Parallels, a global leader in cross-platform solutions, makes it simple for customers to use and access the applications and files they need on any device or operating system. We help businesses and individuals to securely and productively use their favorite devices and preferred technology, whether it’s Windows®, Mac®, iOS, AndroidTM, Chromebook, Windows Phone, Linux, Raspberry Pi or the Cloud. Parallels solutions enable seamless delivery of virtual desktops and applications to any device, running Windows on a Mac, Mac management with Microsoft SCCM, and remote access to PCs and Macs from any device.

Sage 50 Accounting is a business management software subscription-based product published by Sage Group and sold in the United States. It was previously called Peachtree Accounting. A conversion to the Peachtree / Sage 50 U.S. data format was made available when Simply Accounting was taken off the market.

Palo Alto Networks, Inc. is a multinational cybersecurity company with headquarters in Santa Clara, California. Its core products are a platform that includes advanced firewalls and cloud-based offerings that extend those firewalls to cover other aspects of security.

At Pelco by Schneider Electric, we are committed to the development and manufacture of open IP video security systems coupled with an unparalleled level of

customer service and support. From an expanded selection of IP security cameras and video management systems to full HD displays, traditional surveillance

technologies, accessories and more, Pelco is your trusted video security partner.

Power BI is a business analytics service by Microsoft. It aims to provide interactive visualizations and business intelligence capabilities with an interface simple enough for end users to create their own reports and dashboards.

R

Raritan is a leading provider of intelligent rack PDUs. Our PDUs and other intelligent power and energy monitoring products are transforming how companies manage their data center power chains. Our solutions increase the reliability and intelligence of data centers in 9 of the top 10 Fortune 500 technology companies.

Raritan, a brand of Legrand, is a leading provider in intelligent rack PDUs, KVM switches, and other data center infrastructure monitoring and management solutions. Raritan’s product can be found in data centers and server rooms around the globe -- including those of the top Fortune 500 companies, such as Cisco, Dell, Google, HP, IBM, Intel, and Microsoft. Since 1985, Raritan has been helping IT professionals by providing real-time visibility and secure access and control to IT infrastructures.

Power IQ® DCIM Monitoring Software enables data center and facility managers to closely monitor and efficiently utilize their existing data center power infrastructure. Data center health maps, power analytics, cooling charts, and reports alert you to potential trouble, and help you understand real-time power load, trends, and capacity at all levels of infrastructure. A configurable dashboard provides vendor agnostic views of power capacity, environmental health, and energy consumption.

Red Hat, Inc. is a multinational software company providing open-source software products to the enterprise community.

Red Hat, Inc. is a multinational software company providing open-source software products to the enterprise community.

RSA is a part of the Dell Technologies family of brands. Dell Technologies is a unique family of businesses that provides the essential infrastructure for organizations to build their digital future, transform IT and protect their most important asset: information. The company services customers of all sizes across 180 countries – ranging from 98 percent of the Fortune 500 to individual consumers – with the industry's most comprehensive and innovative portfolio from the edge to the core to the cloud.

Retrospect, Inc. is dedicated to providing reliable backup and recovery tools for professionals and small-to-midsize businesses. Our employees average 10 years of

experience each in developing, supporting, or marketing Retrospect. Our customers—who can be found in every industry and in more than 80 countries around the

world—use Retrospect backup software to protect anywhere from one to 1,000 computers on their networks. It is our strong belief that data protection software should be "backed up"with the best customer support available, as our team of experts prove every day.

Ricoh is a global technology company that has been transforming the way people work for more than 80 years. Today, we are empowering digital workplaces

with innovative technologies and services as well as a deep understanding of managing and accessing information.

RES optimizes the digital workspace. Workers get self service and more secure, better-managed access to the apps and IT services that are best suited to their immediate working contexts. Acquired by Ivanti in July 2017 with the backing of Clearlake Capital, RES has a significant presence in Europe, particularly in the Benelux region. RES will help Ivanti extend its existing automation capabilities to a larger pool of applications, platforms, and databases. RES, the leader in digital workspace technology, helps organizations achieve better business results with reduced risks in security and compliance — while making enterprise technology easier and less disruptive for the worker to access. RES takes a people-centric approach to making technology access secure, even in complex multi-device/multi-location scenarios.

Ruckus Wireless is a pioneer in the wireless infrastructure market, enabling carriers and enterprises to stay ahead of the exploding demand for high-bandwidth applications and services. The Ruckus Smart Wi-Fi technology redefines what’s possible in wireless network performance with flexibility, reliability, and affordability. We call this Pervasive Performance.

S

Stoneware, Inc. is a manufacturer of cloud computing and classroom management software. Stoneware’s Unified Workspace solution allows IT to provide users with access to their files, applications, and reports from an HTML5 webDesktop. With the acquisition of LanSchool Technologies, LLC. in 2011, Stoneware provides award-winning classroom management and monitoring software known for being reliable, simple, and easy-to-use.

Symantec Corporation, the world’s leading cyber security company, helps organizations, governments and people secure their most important data wherever it lives. Organizations across the world look to Symantec for strategic, integrated solutions to defend against sophisticated attacks across endpoints, cloud and infrastructure. Symantec Corporation is the world’s leading cyber security company, helps organizations, governments and people secure their most important data wherever it lives. Organizations across the world look to Symantec for strategic, integrated solutions to defend against sophisticated attacks across endpoints, cloud and infrastructure. Likewise, a global community of more than 50 million people and families rely on Symantec’s Norton and LifeLock product suites to protect their digital lives at home and across their devices. Symantec operates one of the world’s largest civilian cyber intelligence networks, allowing it to see and protect against the most advanced threats. Symantec Corporation is the world’s leading cyber security company, helps organizations, governments and people secure their most important

data wherever it lives. Organizations across the world look to Symantec for strategic, integrated solutions to defend against sophisticated attacks

across endpoints, cloud and infrastructure.

Samsung Business Services are a set of products pertaining to business customers offered by Samsung.

ScanSafe is the first and largest global provider of SaaS Web Security, ensuring a safe and productive Internet environment for organizations. ScanSafe solutions keep

viruses and spyware off corporate networks and allow organizations to control and secure the use of the Web and instant messaging. As a fully managed service,

ScanSafe's solutions require no hardware, upfront capital costs or maintenance and provide unparalleled real-time threat protection.

Secure Channels provides innovative, patented and peer reviewed security solutions designed to complement existing investments in security. Our products offer advanced access control, adaptable encryption, data protection, enterprise confidentiality solutions and proximity-based monitoring and intelligence capabilities. We help you meet your security challenges.

SonicWall has been fighting the cyber-criminal industry for over 25 years defending small, medium-size businesses and enterprises worldwide. Backed by research from the Global Response Intelligent Defense (GRID) Threat Network, our award-winning real-time breach detection and prevention solutions, coupled with the formidable resources of over 10,000 loyal channel partners around the globe, are the backbone securing more than a million business and mobile networks and their emails, applications and data. This combination of products and partners has enabled a real-time cyber defense solution tuned to the specific needs of the more than 500,000 global businesses in more than 215 countries and territories.

Sophos is a company whose products allow one to secure every endpoint of their network, from laptops to virtual desktops and servers, to web and email traffic and mobile devices. What’s more, securing these devices is made possible through products that fit your precise needs.

Storix System Backup Administrator (SBAdmin) for AIX, Linux and Solaris systems provides data backup management with emphasis on complete and flexible full system backup and recovery. SBAdmin provides local and network backup management and disaster recovery of single systems to entire networks, all managed from a central GUI or Web-based user interface. Even complete system installations can be performed from a central console, restoring any client from any server on the network.

Synology is a company dedicated to developing high-performance, reliable, versatile, and environmentally-friendly NAS servers, surveillance solutions and routers. Our goal is to deliver agile and cost-effective solutions and solid customer service.

Scale Computing integrates storage, servers, and virtualization software into an all-in-one appliance based system that is scalable, self-healing, and as easy to manage as a single server. Using industry standard components, the HC3 appliances install in under an hour, and can be expanded and upgraded with no downtime. High availability insulates the user from any disk or server failure and a unified management capability driven by the patented HyperCore Software™, efficiently integrates all functionality. The result is a data center solution that reduces operational complexity, allows a faster response to business issues, and dramatically reduces costs.

Silver Peak is a Dell preferred global Wide Area Network (WAN) optimization partner. By integrating Silver Peak real-time network optimization techniques into Dell data center switching, campus networking, server, and storage products, enterprises can cost-effectively increase network capacity, optimize network quality, and ensure maximum performance over distance - all while reducing ongoing IT operating costs. Silver Peak is field proven with many Dell solutions, including Dell AppAssure, Compellent, DR4100, EqualLogic, and PowerConnect devices. In addition, SIlver Peak runs on Dell PowerEdge servers and is integrated with the new Dell VRTX PowerEdge data-center-in-a-box.

Sonasoft provides affordable enterprise-level email archiving and eDiscovery solutions ideal for SMB market using Microsoft Exchange Server. Sonasoft also makes backup and recovery software for Microsoft Business Software, e.g. Microsoft SQL Server and Microsoft Exchange Server. Sonasoft’s software runs 100 percent on Microsoft platforms; we use Microsoft SQL Server stores for our email archiving database. Sonasoft’s Email Archiving Solutions have earned customer acclaim for: reducing the Exchange Server by 80 percent archiving multiple domains into a single email archive, cutting eDiscovery time by up to 75 percent, allowing access to all users without plugins, etc.

SoftLayer Technologies, Inc. is a dedicated server, managed hosting, and cloud computing provider, founded in 2005 and acquired by IBM in 2013.

HPE SimpliVity powers the world’s most efficient and resilient data centers with the most complete hyperconverged infrastructure solution. Unlike traditional infrastructure that’s complex and costly to manage, HPE SimpliVity dramatically simplifies enterprise IT by combining all infrastructure and advanced data services for virtualized workloads—including guaranteed data efficiency, data protection, and VM-centric management and mobility—onto the customer’s choice of server. HPE SimpliVity delivers 3x cost savings versus traditional architectures and up to 49% cost savings versus public cloud.

Now called Ivanti, Ivanti unifies IT processes and security operations to better manage and secure the digital workplace.

Splunk Inc. was founded to pursue a disruptive new vision: make machine data accessible, usable and valuable to everyone. Machine data is one of the fastest growing and most valuable parts of big data -- generated by every component of IT infrastructures, applications, mobile devices, website clickstreams, social data, sensors

and more.

SAS is the leader in business analytics software and services, and the largest independent vendor in the business intelligence market. Through innovative solutions, SAS helps customers at more than 70,000 sites improve performance and deliver value by making better decisions faster. Since 1976 SAS has been

giving customers around the world THE POWER TO KNOW®.

SolarWinds is a leading provider of powerful and affordable IT infrastructure management software. Our products give organizations worldwide, regardless of type, size, or IT infrastructure complexity, the power to monitor and manage the performance of their IT environments, whether on-premises, in the cloud, or in hybrid models. We continuously engage with all types of technology professionals – IT operations professionals, DevOps professionals, and managed service providers (MSPs) – to understand the challenges they face maintaining high-performing and highly available IT infrastructures. The insights we gain from engaging with them, in

places like our THWACK online community, allow us to build products that solve well-understood IT management challenges in ways that technology professionals want them solved. This focus on the user and commitment to excellence in end-to-end hybrid IT performance management has established SolarWinds as a worldwide leader in network management software and MSP solutions.

Spectra Logic develops data storage solutions that solve the problem of short- and long- term digital preservation for business and technology professionals dealing with exponential data growth. Dedicated solely to storage innovation for nearly 40 years, Spectra Logic’s uncompromising product and customer focus is proven by the adoption of its solutions by industry leaders in multiple vertical markets globally. Spectra enables affordable, multi-decade data storage and access by creating new methods of managing information in all forms of storage—including archive, backup, cold storage, private and public cloud.

SuperCom has been a leading global provider of traditional and digital identity solutions, providing advanced safety, identification and security solutions to governments and organizations, both private and public, throughout the world. Through its proprietary e-Government platforms and innovative solutions for traditional and biometrics enrollment, personalization, issuance and border control services, SuperCom has inspired governments and national agencies to design and issue secured Multi-ID documents and robust digital identity solutions to its citizens and visitors.

Schneider Electric is leading the Digital Transformation of Energy Management and Automation in Homes, Buildings, Data Centers, Infrastructure and Industries.

StorageCraft Technology Corporation is a premier backup and disaster recovery software company. StorageCraft focuses on providing best-in-class backup, disaster recovery, system migration and data protection solutions for virtual and physical environments. StorageCraft delivers software products that reduce downtime, improve security and stability for systems and data and lower the total cost of ownership

for servers, desktops and laptops.

Sunbird Software is changing the way data centers are being managed. With a focus on real user scenarios for real customer problems, we help data center operators manage tasks and processes faster and more efficient than ever before, while saving costs and improving availability. We strive to eliminate the complexity they have been forced to accept from point tools and home grown applications, removing the

dependency on emails and spreadsheets to transform the delivery of data center services. Sunbird delivers on this commitment with unexpected simplicity through products that are easy to find, buy, deploy, use, and maintain. Our solutions are rooted in our deep connections with our customers who share best practices and participate in our user groups and product development process.

SAP SE is a German multinational software corporation that makes enterprise software to manage business operations and customer relations.

Super Micro is an information technology company that is a provider of leading enterprise data center solutions.

Speakap is a secure and private communications platform that enables organizations of all sizes to have a structured dialogue with their highly-valued frontline/customer-facing employees in order to deliver greater customer experience and drive business value.

SentinelOne is a pioneer in delivering autonomous security for the endpoint, datacenter and cloud environments to help organizations secure their assets with speed and simplicity. SentinelOne unifies prevention, detection, response, remediation and forensics in a single platform powered by artificial intelligence. With SentinelOne, organizations can detect malicious behavior across multiple vectors, rapidly eliminate threats with fully-automated integrated response and to adapt their defenses against the most advanced cyberattacks.

T

T1 Visions create solutions that seamlessly integrate our technology with any environment. They are a visual collaboration software company specializing in multitouch, multiuser applications for enterprise, education, active learning, and more. Our team is built of minds who specialize in engineering, business, and technology – resulting in unrivaled support for you from start to finish. Over the past decade, we’ve been focused on touch technology solutions to serve you best-in-class,

one-of-a-kind, proprietary software for all of your needs.

TIBCO Software Inc. is a company that provides integration, analytics and event-processing software for companies to use on-premises or as part of cloud computing environments. The software manages information, decisions, processes and applications for over 10,000 customers. TIBCO fuels digital business by enabling better decisions and faster, smarter actions through the TIBCO Connected Intelligence Cloud. From APIs and systems to devices and people, we interconnect everything, capture data in real time wherever it is, and augment the intelligence of your business through analytical insights. Thousands of customers around the globe rely on us to build compelling experiences, energize operations, and propel innovation. Their industry solutions include applications in banking, energy, insurance, manufacturing, retail, telecommunications, travel, and more. The business solutions include applications for app intergration, business activity monitoring, connected vehicles, hybrid cloud intergration, and pervasive intergration. Regarding technology solutions, they have applicantions for Amazon Web Services, Apache Spark, Blockchain, Internet of Things, Market Intergration, Microservices, and Salesforce intergration.

Transition Networks provides edge connectivity solutions to advance intelligent networks globally for enterprises, integrators, service providers, federal agencies, and the military. Addressing the demands of smart city and hybrid networks, our PoE switches and converters, adapters, and optics integrate easily into smart network applications in commercial and hardened environments.

Tenable®, Inc. is the Cyber Exposure company. Over 27,000 organizations around the globe rely on Tenable to understand and reduce cyber risk. As the creator of Nessus®, Tenable extended its expertise in vulnerabilities to deliver Tenable.io®, the world’s first platform to see and secure any digital asset on any computing platform. Tenable customers include more than 50 percent of the Fortune 500, more than 25 percent of the Global 2000 and large government agencies.

Tintri all-flash storage and software is specifically built for virtualized workloads. We replace legacy storage solutions with technology that automatically manages an organization’s applications, so databases, virtual desktops and DevOps workloads all perform flawlessly. Customers plug Tintri in and walk away. As a result, Tintri has built a customer base of 1,500+ fanatical enterprises and an 81-point Net Promoter Score. Tintri is a wholly owned business unit of DDN, the world's largest privately held storage company.

Trend Micro enables the smart protection of information, with innovative security solutions that are simple to deploy and manage, and fits an evolving ecosystem. Trend Micro solutions provide layered content security for mobile devices, endpoints, gateways, servers and the cloud. Leveraging these solutions, organizations can protect their end users, their evolving data center and cloud resources, and their information threatened by sophisticated targeted attacks. Trend Micro enables the smart protection of information, with innovative security solutions that are simple to deploy and manage, and fits an evolving ecosystem. Trend Micro solutions provide layered content security for mobile devices, endpoints, gateways, servers and the cloud. Leveraging these solutions, organizations can protect their end users, their evolving data center and cloud resources, and their information threatened by sophisticated targeted attacks.

TRENDnet is a global provider of award-winning networking and surveillance solutions to small and medium-sized business and home users. Building networking solutions since 1990, TRENDnet enables users to share broadband access, multimedia content and networked peripherals for true anywhere connectivity. TRENDnet's diverse product portfolio includes Wireless, Internet Cameras (IP Cameras), Switches, Power over Ethernet (PoE), Fiber, Gigabit, Home Automation, Network Video Recorders (NVR), Keyboard/Video/Mouse (KVM), Print Servers, Powerline, NAS Media Servers, Multimedia Accessories, and more.

Tegile Systems is a manufacturer of flash storage arrays based in Newark, California. Both hybrid and all-flash storage arrays use technology called IntelliFlash.

ThoughtSpot, the leader in search & AI-driven analytics for the enterprise, is helping the largest companies in the world succeed in the digital era by putting the power

of a thousand analysts in every business person's hands. With ThoughtSpot’s next-generation analytics platform, business people can use Google-like search to easily

analyze complex, large-scale enterprise data and get trusted insights to questions they didn’t know to ask, automatically - all with a single click. ThoughtSpot connects

with any on-premise, cloud, big data, or desktop data source, deploying 85 percent faster than legacy technologies.

Tripp Lite is a world-leading manufacturer of power protection & connectivity solutions, providing solutions for the data center, factory floor, office, home & more. Network systems and data center solutions include UPS Systems, rack systems, cooling solutions & accessories, PDUs, KVM switches and consoles & more.

TDSourcing provides a comprehensive solution for complex IT product lifecycles. We're an exclusive, single-source provider to Tech Data for End of Life (EOL) and refurbished IT hardware across all major OEMs. We aid in the stabilization of proven data center solutions by providing Extension of Life (XOL) programs that contribute to an overall lower total cost of ownership (TCO). All of our products carry advanced warranties supported by our U.S. sales and support team.

Tableau Software helps people see and understand data. Offering a revolutionary new approach to business intelligence, Tableau allows you to quickly connect, visualize, and share data with a seamless experience from the PC to the iPad. Create and publish dashboards and share them with colleagues, partners, or customers—no programming skills required.

V

Veritas Technologies LLC is an international data management company focusing on information, not infrastructure. Our comprehensive 360 approach to multi-cloud data management provides protection, availability and insight everywhere your information travels. Their solutions include multi-cloud, GDPR, data visibility, data protection/workload portability, storage optimization, business continuity, digital compliance, government, healthcare, and video surveillance. At Veritas Technologies, we empower businesses of all sizes to discover the truth in information—their most important digital asset. Using our platform, customers can accelerate their digital transformation and solve pressing challenges like multi-cloud data management,

data protection, storage optimization, compliance readiness and workload portability—with no cloud vendor lock-in.

Vision Systems has been innovating for more than 17 years in technology and turning actions into positive results. They develop software that improves the management of the main areas of your business.

Veeam is the global leader in intelligent data management for the Hyper-Available Enterprise. Founded in 2006, today they have more than 300K customers worldwide, 55K channel partners, Cisco, HPE, and NetApp as exclusive resellers and nearly 19,000 cloud and service providers. Headquartered in Baar, Switzerland, Veeam has offices in more than 30 countries. There’s a new expectation of today’s data - that it moves to a new state of intelligence, able to automatically anticipate need and meet demand, and move securely across multi-cloud infrastructures. Getting there requires a new approach that merges the traditional disciplines of data backup and recovery, data protection and data security. Moving from policy-based to behavior-based management to make data both intelligent, and ultimately, self-governing.

Vinpower Digital, Inc., is a manufacturer and worldwide supplier of a broad range of digital duplication and storage related hardware, accessories, and media. We focus on digital storage mediums such as optical discs (CD / DVD / Blu-ray), hard drives (HDD / SSD), flash (USB / SD / CF / and more), as well as specialized accessories for mobile devices, including both Android and Apple iOS iPhones and iPads. Whether it be duplication components like controllers and bridge boards; complete systems such as manual towers, disc printers, and robotic autoloaders; components and accessories like drives and media; or customized hardware, software, and App's, Vinpower can provide a solution that will suite your needs and fit your budget anywhere in the world.

VMware, a global leader in cloud infrastructure and digital workspace technology, accelerates digital transformation by enabling unprecedented freedom and flexibility in how their customers build and evolve IT environments. With VMware solutions, organizations are improving business agility by modernizing data centers and integrating public clouds, driving innovation with modern apps, creating exceptional experiences by empowering the digital workspace, and safeguarding customer trust by transforming security. VMware is a member of the Dell Technologies family of businesses.

VidVault™ develops Innovative Body Worn Cameras (BWC), Video Speaker Microphones (VSM) and Evidence Management solutions for law enforcement, education, commercial, government and military security. Our private cloud platform strategy will disrupt the Body Worn Video market by providing an affordable solution while creating strong profits for VidVault, our partners and investors.

Vormetric Data Security was acquired by Thales in March 2016. Thales e-Security is the leader in advanced data security solutions and services, delivering trust wherever information is created, shared or stored. We ensure that company and government data is secure and trusted in any environment – on premise, in the cloud, in data centers and in big data environments – without sacrificing business agility. Security doesn’t just reduce risk, it’s an enabler of the digital initiatives that now permeate our daily lives – digital money, e-identities, healthcare, connected cars and with the internet of things (IoT) even household devices. Thales provides everything an organization needs to protect and manage its data, identities and intellectual property and meet regulatory compliance – through encryption, advanced key management, tokenization, privileged user control and meeting the highest standards of certification for high assurance solutions. Security professionals around the globe rely on Thales to confidently accelerate their organization’s digital transformation.

ViewSonic® Corporation, headquartered in Brea, California, is a leading global provider of computing, electronics, and communications solutions. Founded in 1987,

ViewSonic’s mission is to be the preferred global brand of visual solutions as we continue to focus on display-centric product offerings including LED monitors,

projectors, commercial displays, and cloud computing solutions. ViewSonic continues to pioneer in visual technology innovation to build a connected and ever-reaching

digital future. MaximumBit, Inc. is a leader in advanced Information Technology (IT) solutions. For over 15 years, the core focus of the company has been server-based computing with deep specialization in Citrix. The innovations over the years literally transformed businesses and empowered people to do more. As the IT industry transforms around cloud and “as a Service”, the emergence of software defined technologies allowing you to deploy a standard IT system on any hardware in your Datacenter or in the cloud. This would enable just about any company, in any industry, in any vertical to break cost and complexity barriers of traditional IT. This would enable businesses toleverage the most advanced technologies available, instead of maintaining the legacy systems and not being able to get out of the vicious cycle.

Verifone is transforming every day transactions into new and engaging opportunities for merchants and consumers at the last inch of payments and commerce. Powered by a growing footprint of more than 30 million devices in more than 150 countries, our people are trusted experts working with the world’s best-known retail brands, financial institutions, and payment providers. Verifone is connecting more products to an integrated solutions platform to better meet the evolving needs of our clients and partners. Built on a 37-year history of uncompromised security, we are committed to consistently solving the most complex payment challenges.

Vision Systems has been innovating for more than 17 years in technology and turning actions into positive results. They develop software that improves the management of the main areas of your business.