Head of Directorate of International Law signs agreement on legal status of NATO liaison office in Geneva

15.07.2024 — Press releases EDA

NATO is opening a multilateral liaison office in Geneva to engage with the international and non-governmental organisations based there. In Bern today, the director general of the Directorate of International Law at the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs (FDFA), Franz Perrez, and John Swords, the legal adviser and director of the NATO Office of Legal Affairs, signed an agreement governing the office's legal status.

FDFA launches Action Plan for the Universal Abolition of the Death Penalty 2024-2027

15.07.2024 — Press releases EDA

Switzerland is continuing to act for a world without capital punishment. Universal abolition is one of the Federal Council's 2024–27 Foreign Policy Strategy objectives and one of the four thematic focus areas of the FDFA's 2021–24 Guidelines on Human Rights. The new action plan translates Switzerland's commitment into concrete measures and sets out its priorities in the fight against the death penalty.

Bilateral relations and global challenges at the heart of Ignazio Cassis's tour of Latin America

15.07.2024 — Press releases EDA

Federal Councillor Ignazio Cassis's visit to San José, Costa Rica, today concludes his journey through Latin America. Discussions focused on bilateral and trade relations, the follow-up to the Summit on Peace in Ukraine at the Bürgenstock resort, and global geopolitical challenges and their regional and global impact. In Peru and Costa Rica, the head of the FDFA met with members of the Swiss community at celebrations organised to mark Swiss National Day on 1 August.

Human Rights Council adopts Swiss-led resolution on peaceful protests

12.07.2024 — Press releases EDA

The 56th session of the Human Rights Council (HRC), based in Geneva, concludes today after four weeks of intensive work and the adoption of more than 20 resolutions. Switzerland presented a resolution on the promotion and protection of human rights in the context of peaceful protests, which was adopted by consensus, and participated in discussions on a range of issues and geographical contexts.

Sustainable food systems in spotlight at High-level Political Forum in New York

08.07.2024 — Press releases EDA

Where does the international community stand in the fight against poverty and hunger? This year's High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development at the UN in New York will scrutinise the progress made towards implementing these two goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Switzerland is calling for the inclusion of a new indicator to measure food diversity, thereby strengthening food systems.

Federal Councillor Ignazio Cassis on tour in Latin America

08.07.2024 — Press releases EDA

From 10 to 15 July 2024, Federal Councillor Ignazio Cassis, head of Switzerland's Federal Department of Foreign Affairs, will pay an official visit to Brazil, Costa Rica and Peru. The implementation of the Federal Council's Americas Strategy 2022–25 will be at the heart of this trip. With the various meetings also focusing on global geopolitical challenges, there will be opportunities to take stock of the Summit on Peace in Ukraine held on the Bürgenstock in mid-June. Mr Cassis will use his time in Costa Rica and Peru to meet with the Swiss community there. He will conclude his trip with a stop in New York to take part in an open debate at the UN Security Council on the preservation of international peace and security.

Ignazio Cassis in Central Asia for talks focusing on economy and international cooperation

03.07.2024 — Press releases EDA

Federal Councillor Ignazio Cassis' trip to Central Asia ends today. The head of the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs (FDFA) visited Tajikistan before travelling on to Kyrgyzstan. Both countries are part of Switzerland's voting group in the Bretton Woods institutions, and the trip reaffirmed the strong cooperation among the group's members. There was also praise for the positive results of international cooperation programmes in the fields of digitalisation and water.

Meeting of Swiss Bretton Woods constituency in Dushanbe

28.06.2024 — Press releases EDA

Federal Councillor Karin Keller-Sutter and Federal Councillor Ignazio Cassis, together with Swiss National Bank Chairman Thomas Jordan, will travel to Dushanbe in Tajikistan from 1 to 3 July 2024. There, they will meet with the members of the Swiss constituency in the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, the two Bretton Woods institutions. Both Federal Councillors will take the opportunity to hold bilateral talks with representatives of the constituency. Federal Councillor Ignazio Cassis will then travel to Kyrgyzstan.

Federal Council to enshrine practice of returning stolen PEP assets in law

26.06.2024 — Press releases EDA

The Federal Council is set to propose legislative amendments to enshrine in law Switzerland's practice, developed over the last two decades, on the restitution of illicitly acquired assets of foreign politically exposed persons (PEPs). At its meeting on 26 June 2024, it approved the report in response to the postulate of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Council of States (FAC-S) of 4 April 2019, which asked the Federal Council to examine whether legislation in this area should be harmonised.

Ukraine: Federal Council wants to involve private sector more in recovery efforts

26.06.2024 — Press releases EDA

The Swiss private sector is to play a key role in Ukraine's recovery. Switzerland's Federal Council plans to make CHF 500 million available over the next four years to better involve the private sector in these efforts. The funds will come from the CHF 1.5 billion earmarked for Ukraine in the International Cooperation Strategy 2025–28. In addition, the Federal Council intends to provide CHF 66 million to support early recovery in the east of the country as well as the reconstruction and modernisation of basic infrastructure in the areas of energy security, water supply and public transport. All of this was decided by the Federal Council at its meeting on 26 June 2024.

Switzerland–EU: Federal Council takes stock of current negotiations

26.06.2024 — Press releases EDA

At its meeting on 26 June 2024, the Federal Council took stock of the negotiations with the EU and the internal implementation of the package which aims to stabilise and further develop the bilateral path. While tangible progress has been made in several areas, in others, such as immigration and wage protection, the positions of the two sides have not yet converged sufficiently. Meanwhile parallel discussions continue in Switzerland with interest groups on key sectors.

Switzerland grants CHF 39 million to World Food Programme

26.06.2024 — Press releases EDA

At its meeting of 26 June 2024, the Federal Council decided to allocate CHF 39 million to the UN's World Food Programme (WFP) in order to help tackle food insecurity and malnutrition. The WFP is the world's largest humanitarian organisation, fighting hunger across the globe. It is also one of Switzerland's main international cooperation partners.

Mercury Convention To Be Finalised in Geneva

09.01.2013 — Press releases EDA

The fifth and final session of negotiations on the establishment of an international mercury convention will take place from 13 to 18 January 2013 in Geneva. The session is expected to culminate in the adoption of an agreement that aims to reduce mercury emissions and releases to the air, water and land. During the negotiations, Switzerland, which has been very committed to the establishment of the new convention, will support the effective and comprehensive regulation of mercury, that is its production, use and waste management. The Federal Council approved the mandate of the Swiss negotiating delegation on 9 January 2013.

Federal Council approves the 2012 Foreign Policy Report

09.01.2013 — Press releases EDA

At its meeting on 9 January 2013, the Federal Council approved the 2012 Foreign Policy Report. The report provides an overview on all aspects of Swiss foreign policy and gives an account of Switzerland’s most important foreign policy activities in 2012. It is structured to address the Federal Council’s foreign policy strategy for the period 2012-2015. In addition, it deals with the priority question of Switzerland’s relations with its neighbouring states.

Switzerland and the World Bank sign agreement on the restitution of Kazakh assets

21.12.2012 — Press releases EDA

Switzerland is using a World Bank trust fund as a means to return USD 48 million in assets to Kazakhstan. These funds are meant to benefit the people of Kazakhstan. The Agreement was signed by the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) and the World Bank on 20 December 2012. This restitution is in keeping with Switzerland’s longstanding policy in combating the abuse of its financial centre.

UN Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance:

19.12.2012 — Press releases EDA

Earlier today, the Federal Council initiated the consultation procedure on the ratification of the UN Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance. The consultation procedure will run until 8 April 2013. The Convention requires the States Parties to prohibit enforced disappearance regardless of the circumstances and to make this offence punishable by appropriate penalties.

Convention of 13 December 2006 on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities: Result of the consultation procedure and proposal for adoption

19.12.2012 — Press releases EDA

The Swiss Federal Council has today approved the report on the consultation procedure and, subject to approval by the Federal Assembly, decided to ratify the Convention of 13 December 2006 on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.

New Directorate for European Affairs at the FDFA

19.12.2012 — Press releases EDA

Starting from 1 January 2013, the Directorate for European Affairs (DEA) within the FDFA is responsible for the coordination of Swiss policy on the European Union. It continues to carry out the tasks for which the Integration Office FDFA/FDEA has been responsible since 1961. With regard to the launch of the DEA, the Federal Council has today appointed the current Head of the Integration Office FDFA/FDEA, Henri Gétaz, as Director of the DEA. It also conferred the title of ambassador on two members of the Directorate.

Official meeting between the Head of FDFA, Didier Burkhalter, and ICRC President, Peter Maurer

18.12.2012 — Press releases EDA

Federal Councillor Didier Burkhalter, Head of the FDFA, received the visit of Peter Maurer, President of the ICRC, on 18 December 2012 in Bern, within the scope of the high-level meetings held each year between the ICRC and the directors of this Organization. These meetings bear witness to the degree of confidence existing between the two parties and allow for an in-depth exchange on the major humanitarian challenges of the day.

Metin Arditi appointed UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador

17.12.2012 — Press releases EDA

The Director-General of the United Nations Education, Science and Culture Organisation (UNESCO), Irina Bokova, has named the Swiss author Metin Arditi as a Goodwill Ambassador. The designation ceremony will be held on 18 December at UNESCO headquarters in Paris. Switzerland will be represented at the ceremony by its permanent delegate to UNESCO, Ambassador Rodolphe Imhoof.

Switzerland and Angola sign agreement on the restitution of Angolan assets

17.12.2012 — Press releases EDA

Switzerland will repatriate monies of Angolan origin of about USD 43 million to Angola. The assets will be used to fund development projects that directly benefit the population. On 17 December 2012, Secretary of State Yves Rossier and his Angolan counterpart Carlos Alberto Fonseca signed a corresponding agreement.

Working visit of President Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf to Luxembourg

17.12.2012 — Press releases EDA

Tomorrow, President Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf, Head of the Federal Department of Finance (FDF), will be on an official working visit to Luxembourg. She will meet Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker and Finance Minister Luc Frieden.

Switzerland supports emergency measures for the victims of the typhoon in the Philippines

14.12.2012 — Press releases EDA

At the beginning of December, typhoon Bopha caused hundreds of deaths and great devastation on the Philippine island of Mindanao. The Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) has now contributed CHF 600,000 to emergency relief efforts.

Switzerland pledges its commitment to the global fight against terrorism

14.12.2012 — Press releases EDA

During the Global Counterterrorism Forum, which was held in Abu Dhabi on Friday, Switzerland approved the Algiers Memorandum urging partner States to adopt measures that will reinforce the global fight against terrorism and will improve the support given to victims of terrorism. The Memorandum also calls on States to cease paying ransoms in return for hostage releases. Federal Councillor Didier Burkhalter, who represented Switzerland at the ministerial conference, reiterated Switzerland’s willingness to work alongside international agencies in order to move forward the global fight against terrorism. He congratulated the international community on the progress they have made at intensifying and coordinating their counterterrorism efforts, as evidenced by the creation of the Abu Dhabi Centre of Excellence on Countering Violent Extremism.

SwissInTouch, Switzerland in your pocket

24.11.2022 — Article EDA

Approximately 780,000 Swiss citizens abroad currently benefit from the wide range of services provided by a global network of representations offering advice and support. The FDFA Helpline is also on hand to answer queries 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Now there's a new app that makes staying in touch even easier: SwissInTouch keeps Switzerland at your fingertips.

Speech - 150e anniversaire du passage de la frontière de l’armée du général Bourbaki

29.01.2022 — EDA

Allocution du président de la Confédération Ignazio Cassis, chef du Département fédéral des affaires étrangères, à l’occasion du 150e anniversaire du passage de la frontière de l’armée du général Bourbaki - Check against delivery.

"Digitalisation - an opportunity for Europe's democratic values"

21.05.2021 — EDA

Speech by Federal Councillor Ignazio Cassis, Head of the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs (FDFA), on the occasion of the 131st (virtual) Session of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. Check against delivery.

Official opening of the Ceneri Base Tunnel

04.09.2020 — EDA

Camorino, 04.09.2020 - Address by Federal Councillor Ignazio Cassis on the occasion of the Inauguration Ceremony "Ceneri2020" - Check against delivery

Passaggio di testimone tra generazioni (de-fr-it)

25.08.2020 — EDA

Bern, 25.08.2020: Address by Federal Councillor Ignazio Cassis on the occasion of the retirement of the ambassadors and the welcoming of the young diplomats who are taking up their posts in the service of the FDFA. Check against delivery.

75 years of the United Nations (fr)

26.06.2020 — EDA

Geneva, 26.06.2020: Address by the Federal Councillor Ignazio Cassis on the 75th anniversary of the signing of the United Nations Charter - Check against delivery

Opening of the 43rd session of the Human Rights Council (fr)

24.02.2020 — EDA

Geneva, 24.02.2020 - Speech by Federal Councillor Ignazio Cassis - Check against delivery

SDC Newsletter: Africa, CO2 reduction and WEF

29.01.2020 — DEZA

The FDFA has showcased some innovative technology at the 50th WEF, which could reduce global CO2 emissions by millions of tonnes per year. The SDC undertakes a range of projects in the construction industry, working in cooperation with academia and the private sector. The aim of these projects, which are located in emerging economies, is to tackle global warming effectively.

Discover the world with the FDFA and with peace mind

17.01.2020 — Article EDA

Just what is the perfect trip abroad? And where would it take you? Swiss travellers have different needs and expectations – some prefer to go on their own, others would rather choose an organised tour. It doesn't matter if you're a backpacker or a jet-setter: the FDFA provides a wide range of services for anyone who wants to travel abroad.

Honeyland Oscar nominee

14.01.2020 — Article DEZA

Honeyland has been nominated for an Oscar in the categories Best International Feature Film and Best Documentary. The film’s hero, Hatidze Muratova, champions environmental protection and the sustainable management of natural resources. She was discovered through the Nature Conservation Programme launched by the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC).

Switzerland and Italy reach an agreement on Campione d'Italia

20.12.2019 — EDA

At its meeting on 20 December 2019, the Federal Council approved an exchange of notes between Switzerland and Italy regarding the change of the customs status of the Italian enclave of Campione d'Italia. This exchange of notes is necessary to ensure legal certainty and facilitates the transition of Campione d'Italia into the European Union's customs territory, scheduled for 1 January 2020.

Third meeting of the Working Group on Unresolved Issues established by the Joint Committee supervising the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of Georgia and the Government of the Russian Federation

19.12.2019 — EDA

On 16 and 17 December 2019 a third meeting of the Working Group on Unresolved Issues established by the Joint Committee, supervising the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of Georgia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the basic principles for a mechanism of customs administration and monitoring of trade in goods, signed on 9 November 2011, took place in Bern.