Nigeria is a country made up of 36 states and one federal capital area. Each of the 36 states is a semi-autonomous political unit that shares powers with the federal government as defined by the Federal Republic of Nigeria’s Constitution.

The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) is Nigeria’s capital territory, and the capital city of Abuja is located within it. The FCT is not a state but is governed by elected representatives who report to the federal government. Each state is divided into local government districts. (LGAs).

In Nigeria, there are 774 local governments. The 36 states are co-equal but not paramount under the constitution because sovereignty is held by the federal government. The National Assembly can change the constitution, but each alteration must be adopted by two-thirds of the federation’s 36 states.

Presently, there are 36 states in Nigeria, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) which shall be revealed below:

Nigerian State (Capital)

Abia State (Umuahia)

Adamawa State (Yola)

Akwa Ibom State (Uyo)

Anambra State (Awka)

Bauchi State (Bauchi)

Bayelsa State (Yenagoa)

Benue State (Makurdi)

Borno State (Maiduguri)

Cross River State (Calabar)

Delta State (Asaba)

Ebonyi State (Abakaliki)

Edo State (Benin City)

Ekiti State (Ado Ekiti)

Enugu State (Enugu)

Gombe State (Gombe)

Imo State (Owerri)

Jigawa State (Dutse)

Kaduna State (Kaduna)

Kano State (Kano)

Katsina State (Katsina)

Kebbi State (Birnin Kebbi)

Kogi State (Lokoja)

Kwara State (Ilorin)

Lagos State (Ikeja)

Nasarawa State (Lafia)

Niger State (Minna)

Ogun State (Abeokuta)

Ondo State (Akure)

Osun State (Oshogbo)

Oyo State (Ibadan)

Plateau State (Jos)

Rivers State (Port Harcourt)

Sokoto State (Sokoto)

Taraba State (Jalingo)

Yobe State (Damaturu)

Zamfara State (Gusau)

Nigerian 36 States and Their Slogans

States Capital Slogan Abia State Umuahia God’s Own State Adamawa State Yola Land of Beauty Akwa Ibom State Uyo Land of Promise Anambra State Awka Light of the Nation Bauchi State Bauchi Pearl of Tourism Bayelsa State Yenagoa Glory of all lands Benue State Makurdi Food Basket of the Nation Borno State Maiduguri Home of Peace Cross River State Calabar The People’s Paradise Delta State Asaba The Big Heart Ebonyi State Abakaliki Salt of the Nation Edo State Benin City Heart Beat of Nigeria Ekiti State Ado Ekiti Land of Honour and Integrity Enugu State Enugu Coal City State Gombe State Gombe Jewel in the Savannah Imo State Owerri Eastern Heartland Jigawa State Dutse The New World Kaduna State Kaduna Centre of Learning Kano State Kano Centre of Commerce Katsina State Katsina Home of Hospitality Kebbi State Birnin Kebbi Land of Equity Kogi State Lokoja The Confluence State Kwara State Ilorin State of Harmony Lagos State Ikeja Centre of Excellence Nasarawa State Lafia Home of Solid Minerals Niger State Minna The Power State Ogun State Abeokuta Gateway State Ondo State Akure Sunshine State Osun State Oshogbo The State of the Living Spring Oyo State Ibadan Pace Setter State Plateau State Jos Home of Peace and Tourism Rivers State Port Harcourt Treasure Base of the Nation Sokoto State Sokoto Seat of the Caliphate Taraba State Jalingo Nature’s Gift to the Nation Yobe State Damaturu Pride of the Sahel Zamfara State Gusau Farming is Our Pride

State Creation in Nigeria

At independence on October 1, 1960, Nigeria has three (3) regions:

Northern Region

Western Region

Eastern Region

From the Western Region, a second region, the Mid-Western Region, was formed in 1963.

The areas were then replaced by 12 states four years later, in 1967, by a military decree issued by then-Head of State General Yakubu Gowon, namely;

The then-head of state, General Murtala Mohammed, formed seven new states by military decree in 1976, bringing the total to 19, including the Federal Capital Territory of Abuja.

Abuja was formed from sections of Kwara, Niger, Kaduna, and Plateau States, with Niger State providing the majority of the landmass.

In 1987, the then-military President General Ibrahim Babangida established two new states, Akwa Ibom State from Cross River State and Kastina State from Kaduna State, increasing the total to 21.

Four years later, in 1991, General Babangida established nine (9) new states, bringing the total to thirty. Finally, in 1996, the then-military Head of State General Ibrahim Abacha established six (six) new states, bringing the total to 36, which continues to this day.