Fly or drive from Freiburg to Reutlingen

Map of distance from Freiburg, Germany to Reutlingen, Germany

Click here to show map

More trip calculations

Driving Time

Cost Of Driving

Reverse Distance

Halfway

Stopping Points

Hotels near Reutlingen, Germany

Flight Time

airports near Reutlingen, Germany

airlines flying to Reutlingen, Germany

Nonstop Flights

Time Difference

Distance from Freiburg, Germany to Reutlingen, Germany

The total driving distance from Freiburg, Germany to Reutlingen, Germany is 108 miles or 174 kilometers.

The total straight line flight distance from Freiburg, Germany to Reutlingen, Germany is 71 miles.

This is equivalent to 115 kilometers or 62 nautical miles.

Your trip begins in Freiburg, Germany. It ends in Reutlingen, Germany.

Your flight direction from Freiburg, Germany to Reutlingen, Germany is Northeast (62 degrees from North).

The distance calculator helps you figure out how far it is to get from Freiburg, Germany to Reutlingen, Germany. It does this by computing the straight line flying distance ("as the crow flies") and the driving distance if the route is drivable. It uses all this data to compute the total travel mileage.

Freiburg, Germany

City: Freiburg

Region: Baden-Wurttemberg

Country: Germany

Category: cities

Reutlingen, Germany

City: Reutlingen

Region: Baden-Wurttemberg

Country: Germany

Category: cities

Distance calculator

Travelmath helps you find distances based on actual road trip directions, or the straight line flight distance. You can get the distance between cities, airports, states, countries, or zip codes to figure out the best route to travel to your destination. Compare the results to the straight line distance to determine whether it's better to drive or fly. The database uses the latitude and longitude of each location to calculate distance using the great circle distance formula. The calculation is done using the Vincenty algorithm and the WGS84 ellipsoid model of the Earth, which is the same one used by most GPS receivers. This gives you the flying distance "as the crow flies." Find your flight distances quickly to estimate the number of frequent flyer miles you'll accumulate. Or ask how far is it between cities to solve your homework problems. You can lookup U.S. cities, or expand your search to get the world distance for international trips. You can also print out pages with a travel map.