100% BESPOKE MADE IN ITALY: Vanni is the desk pen holder made of bonded leather, handmade in the workshop of Florence, by a master craftsman from our family.

UNIQUE AND PERSONALIZED: Each Vanni pen holder is unique. One of our family artisans will take care of your order and will provide for the selection of the leather, the customization of the stitching, the hand engraving, and the packaging in the appropriate gift box, signing the production certificate himself.

ELEGANCE AND TRADITION: Its octagonal shape, a tribute to the shape of the Florence Baptistery of San Giovanni, allows for better organization of your desk by collecting more pens, pencils, and scissors than other pen holders.

USE: Perfect for your office or home desk. Use it to organize your desk and create order, or simply as an element of elegance in your workspace.

NON-SLIP BASE: We have used a non-slip material on the bottom of the pen holder to ensure maximum stability on your desk.

ORIGINAL GIFT: A unique holder, a handmade object that enhances the quality of raw materials and the craftsmanship of Florentine artisans. The original idea for a special gift that comes inside a precious 100% Made in Italy box.

Customized pen and pencil holder made of high-quality bonded leather, with a hexagonal shape that pays homage to the Florence Baptistery. The design nods to the past, using a contemporary and innovative material such as bonded leather, chosen for its water-resistant and non-slip properties. Designed and handmade for you in our family workshop in Florence, it perfectly suits any type of office. The wrinkles of the leather, each time different, guarantee the authenticity and quality of the material.

To match with: We recommend pairing it with one of our desk pads to create an excellent and high-end work environment. The desk pad model that best matches the Vanni pen holder is certainly the famous Dante desk pad. Interior: The dimensions allow you to store many pens, pencils, and scissors that would otherwise clutter your desk. An authentic product to organize your workspace with elegance and tradition.

Thickness: Each element that makes up the Vanni pen holder has a thickness of 4mm, designed and built to generate resistance and stability to the product.

Stitching: The tone-on-tone stitching increases the resistance and compactness, adding a fundamental touch of class. All stitching is customized.

Authenticity certification: Our certification of Italian authenticity and craftsmanship is hot-stamped on the back. Hot stamping is one of the most characteristic elements of Italian and Florentine leather goods, and despite modern technology, we prefer to do it by hand for maximum control over the final result.

Gift box: We protect your Vanni pen holder with a precious Flavio Parenti gift box, 100% ecological and Made in Italy.

Dedicated to: Why the name Vanni? This artisanal pen holder has an octagonal shape as a tribute to one of the most important buildings in the city of Florence, the Baptistery dedicated to St. John the Baptist. In this place, historically, the most important figures in Florentine and Italian history such as Dante Alighieri, Amerigo Vespucci, Niccolò Machiavelli, Antonio Meucci, Lisa Gherardini (better known as the woman portrayed in the Mona Lisa) by Leonardo, and Carlo Lorenzini (better known as Collodi, the author of Pinocchio) were baptized. A structural pen holder that pays homage to another pillar of the city of Florence, and therefore could only have this name. In Florence, diminutives have always been very popular, and for this reason, we preferred the name Vanni to the more formal and impersonal Giovanni.